Have a seat.。
Welcome to the Vine.。
We're so glad you're here.。
My name's Andrew, one of the pastors here.。
And it's a beautiful thing that we get to gather in Hong Kong and worship Jesus.。
Amen.。
And what a joy, what a joy it is to be alive in this time of history, in this time of what。
the Spirit is doing around the world.。
And, you know, there really is a sense of the church growing, Christianity becoming。
something that people want to be engaging with, the joy of seeing revival in certain。
parts of the world at the moment.。
And what a beautiful thing it is that God's called us to this city, to these people, to。
this community, this society, to live the life of Christ so publicly and openly.。
Isn't that great?。
I want to start today by just confessing something to you.。
The topic that I want to talk about today is one where over the last 20 years of my。
ministry I've actually avoided speaking about.。
Now when a preacher avoids speaking about a topic, it's usually for one of two reasons.。
First of all, it might be because maybe the topic is super controversial or it's super。
pastorally sensitive for that particular community and what's going on, and it wouldn't just。
be right to talk about it.。
So maybe we put it aside and come back to it at a different time.。
Or secondly, the reason why preachers don't preach on a particular topic is usually because。
we realize as preachers that if we were to preach on that topic, it would require a lot。
of work within ourselves first of all.。
We realize that that topic opens up for us a lot of pain, a lot of things that we're。
wrestling with, a lot of things that we know we need to deal with, that if we talked about。
that topic openly with the church, we would have to confess some things.。
We'd have to be pretty open about it.。
We'd have to be pretty transparent.。
We'd probably need to let the Holy Spirit into that darker places of our lives.。
And we'd rather not actually have everybody know about all the brokenness and the sin。
that's within us.。
And so we basically talk about other topics.。
And to be honest, nobody's going to really want to talk about that topic anyway.。
It's a boring topic.。
Why would you want to ever talk about a topic like that?。
That's a scrap.。
We're just going to talk about other things.。
There's nobody who knows that I'm struggling with that.。
And that's good.。
I would rather keep it that way.。
Are you with me?。
I wonder if you could work out which of those two is the reason why I've never spoken on。
this particular topic for 20 years.。
I want to talk this morning on the topic of ambition, which ironically has never been。
an ambition of mine.。
Most scholars would define ambition in this particular way.。
They would say it's a strong desire to do or to achieve something, typically requiring。
determination, hard work, and at times, prioritize self-focus and personal advancement.。
I stand before you today to tell you that for about 30 years of my adult life, so from。
the age of about 20 years old to my age now, don't work out how old I am, I have deeply。
struggled with the reality that I'm an incredibly driven individual.。
I have huge amounts of what's on the screen back there.。
I am driven.。
I am ambitious.。
I am motivated by achievements.。
I want people to see me.。
I like to be recognized, to be known.。
I like to achieve a goal, set a high goal, and work really hard and achieve that goal。
because that makes me feel great.。
And the reality is that all the personality profile testing that I've done over the last。
30 years of my life, it always pretty much said the same thing.。
Andrew is an incredibly driven individual who loves to be motivated by set goals and。
achieving those goals and, and this is a direct quote, he has the competitive drive of an。
Olympic athlete coupled with the self-focus of a narcissistic loner.。
That's your pastor.。
Yes.。
There are lots of other great churches in Hong Kong, by the way, if you would like to。
now go to those.。
But I recognize that on one side of me, there's this drive within me to achieve, to do something,。
to make a name for myself.。
And I've recognized over the years that that drive within me is so strong that it's driven。
me to the point of burnout at times, being overwhelmed, to hurting other people around。
me as perhaps I've pushed others down while I've tried to raise myself up.。
But on the other side, I love Jesus.。
And I have these other things inside of me that speak of, of wanting to serve others。
and a deep call in my life to be a pastor who gives his life on behalf of the people。
of a community.。
And I recognize that I have these two things at work within my soul and my spirit, almost。
at all times warring against each other.。
This drive to prove myself and to be someone in the world and this beautiful idea that。
I should lay down my life for Christ.。
And I realized that I had this contrast within me where I love Jesus, but I also more often。
than not love myself more.。
If I was to be really honest with you, I would say this, personal gain and death to self。
are terrible mixes.。
I wonder if that resonates a little bit with you as well.。
We live here in Hong Kong, don't we?。
One of the most driven cities in the world where we're raised from a young age to be。
achievers, where we work hard, we struggle well, we push ourselves, we want to get that。
great job and work for that great company.。
Having gone to a great university, we have this internal drive that seems to push us。
at all times to make a name for ourselves and to be something in this world.。
I think all of us can recognize that.。
And to be honest with you, in and of itself, is it really that bad?。
I mean, it's good, isn't it, as human beings to want to achieve something in this world,。
to want to actually produce and do something with our lives?。
Isn't it a healthy thing to have a purpose and to want to have value and meaning and。
to do something positive in the community around you?。
I mean, actually, go back to Genesis chapter one and two, this beautiful creation of humanity。
made in the image of God.。
And what does God do?。
God gives humanity ambition.。
God says to humanity, "Go into my creation and steward it well.。
Help it to flourish.。
Bring life to the things that I've created around you."。
So inherent into what it means to be created in the image of God as human beings is this。
beautiful thought that I want my life to count.。
I want it to matter.。
I want to impact the world for good.。
But then we become a Christian and we come into this relationship with Jesus.。
And then suddenly other ideas begin to be made known to us and we begin to wrestle with。
important ideas like meekness and weakness, like the laying down of my life, like the。
idea of death and resurrection, the idea of crucifixion of self, the idea that I need。
to be born again and made into a new being.。
And as Christians, maybe we could be forgiven for thinking that is it irreconcilable to。
actually be somebody who achieves something in the world and also a Christ follower?。
Can those two things actually sit together in some way?。
And I think that when churches ignore this issue, when they don't talk about ambition,。
when they don't recognize the brokenness within it, but also the redemption that could be。
there as well, I think one of two things can happen in a church.。
One is that highly successful people in the world's eyes come into church and they come。
in because they're eager to discover there's more to life and they want to connect with。
Jesus and they come into a church and they find a community that judges them, that makes。
them feel bad because they've been successful in the world's eyes, makes them feel bad that。
they've achieved something, gained something, worked well, gotten some money, whatever it。
might be.。
And it suddenly feels for that community that everybody else is judging them because they're。
not as spiritual as them.。
And those people leave the church.。
Or perhaps a successful person has come into the church and has given their life to Jesus。
and has found something new and fresh and alive.。
And suddenly it's like, "Oh my gosh, I've been doing all this stuff and I've achieved。
and I've been doing all these things."。
Ironically, perhaps things that actually the Holy Spirit has anointed them to do, but now。
that they're a Christian, they think that is not Christian enough.。
And they feel like they need to give away and quit that job or do whatever, because。
that doesn't seem to be Christian enough now that they've found Jesus.。
Which is interesting because William Wilberforce, one of my heroes, one of the great social。
reformers of the 18th century, he wrestled with this very issue.。
God had raised him up to a prominent place in the public sphere.。
He was working within parliament to try to kind of bring the abolishment of slavery in。
the British empire.。
But right before he achieved that goal, he was super driven by that goal, working hard。
in the public square.。
He was a Christian wrestling with this internal battle within him, thinking that maybe he。
should become a parish priest.。
And this drive of, "I have this ambition to do something in the world, in the public。
sphere, but yet maybe I should have the quiet life of a priest," was warring away at him.。
And a friend came to him and said, "You've got to understand, William, that it's just。
as noble to do what you're doing in the public space as it would be to be a priest."。
And Wilberforce had to wrestle with that.。
And he comes out of it and he goes, "Okay, I'm going to commit to this."。
And just a few years later in 1807, they passed the law in parliament to abolish slavery in。
the whole of the British empire.。
The reality is there is a tension between ambition and following Jesus.。
And if it is true that Jesus says we are to be salt and light in the world, then surely。
our flourishing in the very place that God has planted us right now is not inherently。
wrong.。
Does that make sense?。
So there's got to be something about where God has planted me right now, whether it's。
business, whether it's entertainment, whether it's education, whether it's your family,。
whatever it might be in your home.。
But wherever God has planted you right now, if we're to be salt and light, surely our。
flourishing, our desire to do well, our desire to do a difference and make a difference in。
our lives, that cannot inherently be wrong.。
But there is this tension.。
Maybe I could ask it another way.。
Let me ask it as a question.。
Is it possible for a Christian to redefine ambition in such a way that actually it becomes。
one of the most powerful tools we have to reveal the gospel?。
Come on church.。
Could our ambition be so redefined within us that the way in which we achieve, the way。
in which we succeed, the way in which we drive for something good in this world might be。
the most powerful way that we reveal the person of Jesus to our workplaces, to our places。
of education, to our families.。
Could it be that public faith could be dramatically impacted through our ambition?。
I want to offer an answer to that question in our time together this morning by looking。
at the life of Paul, the apostle Paul.。
But particularly I want to contrast his life before he met Jesus when he was known as Saul,。
his Jewish name, and then his life after he met Jesus as Paul.。
And I want to pull out a couple of things in this contrast to you to help you to see。
the journey of ambition that Paul went through.。
Paul himself was an incredibly driven individual when he was called Saul.。
Saul was his Hebrew name, his birth name, and he was incredibly driven.。
In fact, when we are introduced to him in the New Testament, we see a man filled with。
passion, a man filled with zeal, a man filled with ambition, who is singularly focused on。
one primary goal, and he was very good at this goal.。
And that was trying to eradicate this growing sect that was following Jesus.。
In fact, later on in the church in Philippi, he writes to the church in Philippi, and he。
says this about himself in the days of Saul.。
He said, "If anyone else thinks that they have reason to be confident in the flesh,。
oh, I have more."。
He says, "Circumcised on the eighth day of the people of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin,。
a Hebrew of Hebrews, in regards to the law of Pharisee, as for zeal, persecuting the。
church, as for legalistic righteousness, faultless."。
This is like Paul unveiling his resume, and if you were parents of a daughter in Hong。
Kong, you'd be like, "Sign me up.。
I want my daughter to marry this guy."。
He's the best.。
He's a Hebrew of Hebrews.。
He's from the tribe of Benjamin.。
He was faultless in his legalistic zeal.。
And then he says this, "My zeal," another way of translating that word, "My ambition。
is the persecution of the church."。
And when we're first introduced to Saul in the book of Acts, this is exactly what he's。
about to do.。
He's about to go to the town of Damascus to persecute the church there, and when you read。
it, you get this sense of the drive and the selfish ambition that's working inside of。
him to achieve a goal that, interestingly, he thought was God-ordained, but was exactly。
the opposite.。
Let me show you this from Acts 9, starting in verse 1.。
"Meanwhile, Saul was still breathing out murderous threats against the Lord's disciples.。
He went to the high priests and asked him for letters to the synagogues in Damascus,。
so that if he found anyone there who belonged to the way, whether men or women, he might。
take them as prisoners to Jerusalem."。
Let's just stop there.。
So here's Saul, the ambitious, self-driven, 100% focused in eradicating the church.。
He goes to the high priest and he says, "Give me letters, commendation, so that it would。
empower me, give me more power to go to the synagogues in Damascus.。
I'm going to round up all these nasty Christians, and I'm going to bring them back to Jerusalem."。
Us, high achievers, we love power that comes from getting accolades, from getting diplomas,。
from getting titles, from getting whatever it is, degrees, not that any of that is bad。
in and of itself, but oftentimes, sort of these high driven, selfish, ambitious people。
collect those things to gain power, to be able to push that power over someone else.。
You're following this?。
So here you've got Saul, who's accumulating all of this stuff to ensure that he's even。
more powerful, so he can achieve these selfish gains.。
And he's heading to Damascus with these letters, and he's thinking this, "Nothing can stop。
me."。
And then we see what happens next.。
Verse three, "As he reached Damascus on his journey, or as he neared Damascus on his journey,。
suddenly a light from heaven flashed around him.。
He fell to the ground and he heard a voice say to him, 'Saul, Saul, why do you persecute。
me?。
Who are you, Lord?'。
Saul asked.。
'I am Jesus, whom you're persecuting,' he replied.。
'Now get up and go into the city, and you'll be told what you must do.'"。
If in my ambitious self, I was stage handing this whole moment where Jesus is going to。
interrupt the one person who's persecuting his church, I would have done it very differently.。
We would have had bolts of lightning.。
We would have had thunder.。
There would probably have been an earthquake.。
I probably would have got the four horsemen of the apocalypse to show up.。
The horses would have shouted some insults at Paul first.。
I would have then said some really nasty things about him and so scared him that he decided。
to give his life to me.。
Thankfully, though, I'm not Jesus.。
But what does Jesus do?。
Jesus does it not the way we would expect, not the way I would have wanted it to be done.。
Jesus asks Saul a question, a personal, intimate question.。
"Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?"。
Now that might seem like not much of a statement, but later on when Paul's describing this moment。
to a whole bunch of Jewish people around him in Acts 26, he actually mentions that Jesus。
says something else to him in that moment, which is not recorded in Acts chapter 9.。
Jesus says, "Are you going to kick or why are you kicking against the goads?"。
And I'll come back to that in a moment.。
But I want you to sit for a second in how Jesus approaches Saul, a man who is driven。
by the selfish ambition to make a name for himself, a Hebrew of heroes, a Pharisee of。
therapy, a zealing to wipe out the church.。
And Jesus shows up and says, "Why?"。
I don't know if you've ever stopped to think about that for a second, but that's incredibly。
powerful because what Jesus is doing is he's completely beginning the process of kind of。
turning his whole ambition upside down.。
You see, when he asks this question, "Why are you doing what it is that you're doing?"。
That is the starting point of every reflection around ambition in our lives.。
Here's the thing, us ambitious people, we don't ask why very often.。
Here's what we look at and what we focus on.。
What?。
Like, what is the next goal?。
What is the next achievement?。
What is the next thing?。
What is the next promotion?。
What is the next relationship?。
What are the next followers that I can get if I post at this particular time and do this。
particular thing with my reel?。
What what what?。
Our focus so often as high achievers is what can I gain?。
What can I grow in?。
What can I do?。
What can I grow up with?。
And Jesus shows up and says, "You're asking what so much that you've forgotten the most。
important question, which is why?"。
In other words, what he wants Saul to do is wrestle with his motives.。
It's almost as if the behavior, which can be destructive, is not actually the main issue。
because the behavior is being driven by a motive.。
Jesus is saying, "You need to wrestle, Saul, with this motive."。
Jesus in trying to get Saul to look at or to examine his motives, what essentially he's。
doing is he's inviting Saul to take stock of his ambition so he could eventually die。
to it.。
And the starting point of that whole process is Saul recognizing that there are probably。
some things within him.。
There are probably some things that are unmet needs, unmet healing, all the stuff that's。
gone in his upbringing, all the stuff where he's trying to prove himself.。
There's a whole lot of dark and bad stuff within him that he doesn't want to deal with.。
And actually his selfish ambition is designed to cover all that up.。
So many of us very high achievers, we are pushing ourselves and we're going and going。
and going and not slowing down because we know that if we stop pushing ourselves and。
if we slow down, people might see what's truly inside.。
Jesus in his love and in his tenderness just says, "Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting。
me?"。
Take a moment to think about what it is you're doing.。
What is deep inside of you that is driving you to do this very thing?。
I love the fact that he says, "Saul, Saul."。
It's a tender thing.。
It's almost like Jesus is saying with his name twice, "I really know you.。
Like I understand you.。
I see you.。
I know what's going on in your heart.。
I know the things that you wrestle with.。
I know the insecurities that sit there.。
I know why it is that you seem to be so driven.。
I know the selfishness and the jealousy and the anger and the hurt.。
I can see it all inside of you, but none of it repulses me.。
None of it pushes me away from you.。
I'm right here.。
And I'm just saying, can you see it?。
Because I see it.。
But will you allow yourself to see it?。
Because you seeing it, owning it, confessing it, being aware of it is the starting point。
of your transformation.。
I wonder if God's ever had to say your name twice.。
He said my name twice a lot.。
I shared with you a number of weeks ago, actually, about that time when about a year into being。
senior pastor here at the Vine, I was so overwhelmed, so stressed.。
I'd put so much pressure on myself.。
I was almost at the point of burnout just a year in because I was striving and pushing。
myself and trying to be the best pastor that I could be.。
And I had to take my wife out.。
We went out for dinner and I started crying in the restaurant because I was so overwhelmed.。
And in that time, I've described to you before the what of what was going on, but I've never。
talked to you about the why.。
Let me just peel back the curtain and be honest with you.。
In that moment, God spoke to me in a very similar way that he spoke to Saul here.。
He said, Andrew, Andrew, why is it that you're so overwhelmed?。
Not like, why are you so overwhelmed?。
You shouldn't be, but like, why?。
And for the first time in many, many years, I was able to actually go, I need to be honest。
before the Lord.。
And it was a really painful journey, if I'm honest with you.。
But sometimes the most painful journeys are the journeys that give us the greatest strength.。
And it was out of that of being, okay, Holy Spirit, I need you to come because I recognize。
selfishness.。
I recognize a drive inside of me to be the best.。
I recognize a drive inside of me to be known.。
I recognize a drive inside of me that likes the title senior pastor.。
I recognize that the ugliness within me that builds my identity on what others think of。
me rather than what you think of me.。
I wrestling with it all and Jesus in his gentle way of saying, Andrew, Andrew, why。
are you so overwhelmed?。
Was his invitation for me to begin a journey of repentance and renewal and newness of self,。
which is why I've avoided speaking on this topic for so long.。
Because in secret, I've been allowing the spirit to deal with some things that are ugly。
inside of me as a leader, as a pastor, as someone who loves people and loves the job。
I have and considers it the highest of honor to be the senior pastor here at the Vine.。
But the selfishness gets in there and it is ugly to me.。
The metaphor I would use is I feel a little bit like it was like wrestling a dragon.。
Like on the good days, this selfish ambition dragon would raise me to greater heights.。
But even in those moments, my fear was that it would turn around and breathe its fire。
on me, that it would consume me, that it would overwhelm me.。
See selfish ambition does this.。
Selfish ambition always takes more and more from you, but offers you less and less.。
That's the way that this sort of ambition works in us and wars at our soul and rips。
it apart.。
And I recognize just the brokenness of that and the weight of that.。
And I realized that I needed to do something about it.。
Otherwise, I would be not just leading from a place of burnout, but I would be leading。
from a place of sin.。
And there's nothing more destructive in a church community than for its pastor to lead。
openly from a place of sin.。
Andrew, Andrew, why?。
And this is why Jesus speaks to Saul and says these other words.。
Why do you kick against the goad?。
You know, like that's not a good idea.。
A goad was a farmer's like cattle prod.。
It was like a sharp stick and a farmer would use it to poke an oxen and help the oxen to。
know where it goes.。
And sometimes the oxen would kick back against the stick.。
Now the farmer didn't mean to stick the stick right inside the flesh, but when the oxen。
kicked, it would insert it.。
It was a silly thing for the oxen to do, but that's the natural kind of kickback and reaction.。
And, and Jesus says to Saul, don't you realize that you're so caught up in this selfish ambition。
of the very thing you're actually pushing against is me.。
And when you're pushing against me, it's going to be the most painful thing that you'll ever。
experience.。
And here I am as a pastor of a church, and I realize I'm pushing against the very one。
that I'm claiming to serve.。
That requires a deep place of asking that why question.。
There'll be no victory over ambition in your life.。
If you don't have the courage to take that place of brokenness in you and crucify it。
on the cross.。
Death of self and personal gain are terrible mixes.。
The good news is though, there is good news.。
The good news is, is that Jesus offers Paul and us another way.。
He stirs up Ananias in Damascus to come to Paul.。
And I want to notice the words that Ananias speaks over Paul as Paul's wrestling with。
the reality that Jesus has met him and said these words.。
Verse 15, but the Lord said to Ananias, go, this man is my chosen instrument to carry。
my name before the Gentiles and their kings and before the people of Israel.。
I want you to see the first thing that Jesus says to Ananias, eventually into Paul is that。
I have a new ambition for you.。
Like it's not like you've had this selfish ambition.。
Then you come to me and like you're going to sit on the couch for the rest of your life.。
No, there's a new mission, a new drive, a new purpose, a new calling.。
I've got something.。
You're going to be my instrument where I'm going to use you to bring the gospel to so。
many people in the Greek and Roman empire.。
This will be the greatest ambition, the greatest achievement that you will ever have.。
But then notice as a disclaimer, it says this, I will show him how much he must suffer for。
my name.。
Sometimes we want the ambition, but we don't want the journey that gets us there.。
And Jesus has this amazing new mission for Paul, but then he makes it really clear.。
There's going to be some suffering involved.。
And I want to be clear about this.。
I think the suffering that Jesus is speaking to in this moment is connected to the death。
of his selfishness.。
It's connected to the ambition that had been driving him.。
Jesus is essentially saying, are you willing to go on a journey where my Holy Spirit touches。
some of these places in your life?。
And I bring the healing and the restoration and the renewal and the new life that you've。
longed for, but you've kept me away from that you've hidden from me.。
Are you willing to take it off and say, Holy Spirit, would you come?。
And I am selfish.。
I do struggle with pride.。
I do want to make my name great.。
I recognize that there's this stuff in me that I find super ugly, but it comes up.。
I can't seem to deal with it.。
Am I willing to suffer in the sense of crucifixion, which is a painful process, but on the presence。
of Jesus and in the gift of the Spirit, it's the thing that brings new life.。
This is a beautiful invitation to Paul, but it's also a beautiful invitation to all of。
us.。
And it's amazing that when we go into this removal and this change, we get to understand。
some significant things about us.。
We get to understand that actually Jesus doesn't need us to do anything for him, that anytime。
we do anything for him, it's a gift and an honor and a privilege and a joy.。
That ambition goes from strive, strive, strive to make me great to actually, I don't need。
to do anything for God to be great.。
We serve Jesus best when we know that he doesn't need our service.。
You ever thought about that?。
And here's this journey that Paul's going through with all of his great accreditations。
and his great upbringing.。
He's bringing himself to the point where he's like, actually, Jesus doesn't need me, but。
he's made me a chosen instrument.。
He's chosen me.。
He doesn't need me.。
He's chosen me.。
And out of being chosen, what a privilege it is to ensure that I do the best that I。
can to serve him.。
Here's the fascinating thing.。
When you go from Saul to Paul in the book of Acts, at some point, Paul changes his name.。
You don't know why he just suddenly starts being called Paul.。
But actually, that is a beautiful prophetic symbol of the redefinition he's gone through.。
Because Saul was his Hebrew name.。
He takes on a Gentile name, a Roman name, so that he could move easily amongst the people。
that now he's been chosen to go and reach.。
Not only that, but when you see his activity in the New Testament, what you see in the。
apostle Paul is the same behavior that you saw in Saul.。
In other words, he's still driven.。
He still works hard.。
In fact, the New Testament describes him a little bit like he's kind of a pain sometimes,。
you know, he's a bit stubborn.。
He's a bit arrogant still.。
He has to wrestle with that a little bit.。
You know, he doesn't always get on with all the people around him.。
Paul, you know, got arrested a bunch of times.。
Like there's still this drive.。
There's still this kind of passion.。
There's this zeal in him.。
But it's been redirected now to a different purpose.。
And it's been completely transformed by the Holy Spirit.。
So it's the behavior.。
So this will be helpful for some of you that resonate with me about being super achievers。
and driving yourself.。
The behavior kind of looks similar, but it's totally different because it's been transformed。
by the Holy Spirit.。
And the motive is me.。
And then the motive is him.。
There's two things we see in Paul's life when it comes to ambition that we did not see in。
Saul's life with ambition.。
Two things real quick.。
First of all, in the Saul moment, here's what he did.。
He pursued that in isolation.。
But in Paul, we see him pursuing ambition and community.。
It's a beautiful change from it's all about me and I'm doing this on my own and everybody。
get out of my way to I don't want to make decisions unless we've discerned in the Holy。
Spirit together with the community of leaders.。
Suddenly he submitted to people around him where he's isolated on his own.。
He's his own kingdom and he answers to no one.。
When he submits himself to a community as Paul, he allows himself, yes, to be encouraged。
by that community for them to speak words of life into him.。
But he also allows those people to confront him, to speak to him, to say, "Hey, you're。
doing great."。
Or, "Actually, have you looked at your modus lately?。
You need to ask yourself that why question again, because I see sometimes in your language。
and the way that you act, I can sense a little bit of pride coming in you again, Paul.。
Why don't you just take a time to ask the why?。
Why don't you come up for it?"。
He had this great community around him that was raising him up, giving him life, but also。
keeping him grounded and holding him accountable.。
Are you with me?。
Without that, we will very easily, as all human beings, slip back into the selfishness。
side of ambition rather than the godly side.。
Here's the second thing we see.。
Before it was he wanted others to know him, then as Paul, he wanted to know Jesus.。
Which is really interesting because when we think of the apostle Paul, we think of a guy。
who makes Jesus known to others.。
And that's what he does.。
He does an amazing job of that.。
He plants churches.。
He preaches the gospel across the empire.。
That's amazing.。
But actually the key thing that Paul speaks about himself in the New Testament is, "I。
just want to know Jesus."。
No, my primary ambition now, yes, God's given me a mission.。
Yes, he's given me a calling.。
Yes, he's given me some new purpose to do this.。
But my primary ambition is to know Jesus.。
And if I keep that my primary ambition, then all the other things flow from that place.。
When that isn't my primary ambition, I fall back into selfishness.。
But when knowing Christ is my all and all, everything flows and submits from there.。
Let me actually read to you how Paul describes himself in this way in Philippians chapter。
three, right after that verse that I read to you earlier about his great resume.。
He then says this, "But whatever was to my prophet before as Saul, I now consider lost。
for the sake of Christ.。
What is more, I consider everything a loss compared to the surpassing greatness of knowing。
Christ Jesus, my Lord, whose for sake I have forsaken all of these things.。
I consider them rubbish, all that past stuff, all the achieving, all of the selfish stuff,。
all of that, everything I ever gained there, rubbish, that I may gain Christ and be found。
in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law as a Pharisee before,。
but that which is now through faith in Christ.。
The righteousness that comes from God is by faith.。
So I want to know Christ and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of sharing。
in his sufferings, becoming like him in death so that somehow I would attain to the resurrection。
from the dead.。
That's my primary goal.。
Not that I have already obtained all this or have already been made perfect, but I press。
on to take hold of that for which Christ Jesus took hold of me."。
Brothers and sisters, I do not consider myself yet to have taken hold of it.。
I haven't fully achieved what it is I'm longing to achieve.。
But one thing I do, forgetting what is behind and straining forward to what is ahead, I。
press on towards the goal to win the prize for which God has called me heavenward in。
Christ Jesus.。
All of us, all of us are found in the beauty of that verse.。
Isn't it amazing that Paul would say, "It is for Christ.。
I just want to know him and his resurrection and nothing else."。
That is his answer to, "Why are you doing this?"。
Because I want everything for me.。
Now everything I do is so that I could know him.。
I've shared with you a bit about Paul's story.。
I've shared a bit about my story, but I want to introduce you now as we begin to close。
to an amazing woman here at the Vine.。
Her name is Alison Chan, and she's going to come and share a bit of her story.。
Can you put your hands together as we welcome Alison?。
How are you?。
Good.。
Nice to see you.。
Nice to see you too.。
This is just you and me and 600 other people.。
Don't worry about them.。
Don't worry about them.。
It's fine.。
So Alison, amazing woman.。
I've known her since she was in her early 20s.。
She is very successful, works for Colgate.。
How are your teeth?。
Everybody must ask you that.。
No cavities.。
She works for Colgate.。
She's had a lot of jobs, done a lot of great things with her life.。
But the reason why I love Alison is because she's very successful, has achieved a lot。
in her life, but she's had to wrestle deeply with some of these things that we've been。
talking about today.。
And so I wanted to jump in and just ask you about the struggle that you've had as well。
in this area, just like I've had.。
And how has that manifested for you?。
And what were some of the triggers towards that?。
I mean, I think in terms of ambition, and I'm an ambitious person, I've had it in many。
areas of my life.。
And whereas for my workplace and towards business, I thought that relationship with ambition。
was always very healthy.。
I could trust God with it.。
I felt comfortable with it.。
I can submit to him deeply.。
But with my own personal struggle in my personal life, it was much more difficult with that。
type of ambition.。
For many years, I had the ambition of being married and having a family of my own.。
And for many years, it did not come to pass.。
And so like the ambition that we talked about just now, that it could get very selfish,。
it can get very jealous.。
I had dreams of what this married life or having a family of my own would look like.。
I obsessed about these thoughts.。
Sometimes those thoughts can get very dark.。
It can get very obsessive.。
And to a point when I think I had a wake up call when several times I was invited to church。
weddings here, or bridal showers, or even baby showers of close friends I know from。
the church, and I really struggled with going.。
I was eaten with a lot of jealous thoughts, a lot of self conscious, like shameful, even。
something's wrong with me, that, you know, it hasn't happened to me yet.。
And yeah, many other things like that.。
So I knew it was kind of dark and not exactly right.。
And God reminded me deeply through the word too, that this was not fully submitted to。
Him yet.。
So I know that, like I journeyed with you a little bit in some of this.。
There was a passage I think from, is it James?。
Okay.。
There was a passage from James, which I remember was important to you.。
Do you want to share a little bit about what the Lord said to you through that passage?。
Sure.。
So it was from James 3, 14 to 16, and it was a very big wake up call to me.。
But if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your hearts, do not boast and。
be false to the truth.。
This is not the wisdom that comes down from above, but it's earthly and spiritual and。
demonic.。
For where jealousy and selfish ambition exists, there will be disorder and every vile practice.。
So while I knew somehow like having a dream of having a family and marriage of my own。
is not a bad thing, the thoughts that then came from it were not really from God.。
And it became selfish, jealous, and I had to wrestle with Him again and again to be。
able to get to a healthier place.。
So it kind of sounds like a little Damascus road moment for you.。
Because like, it's like, you know, it seems like Jesus is asking you that why question.。
Like obviously you've got this desire to want to get married.。
That's not a bad desire.。
That's a great desire.。
But there was, there was maybe wrong motive within it.。
Do you feel like that was one of the things that kind of came out in that conversation?。
For sure.。
It became a little bit too much about myself and what I wanted to prove to myself, my family,。
people around me that, you know, I'm wanted, I could achieve this.。
And you know, it was very interesting because I feel like with work, I could control it。
a lot more.。
I could work harder, I can work longer, I can achieve the next goal.。
With marriage and family, this personal side, it's much less controllable.。
And I really had to choose to submit to God fully to trust Him to work through this.。
What are some things that you found on the journey were helpful to you?。
Because we've been looking at Paul and he kind of goes on this journey and you went。
on a journey.。
What were some of the anchors in that journey that enabled you to, you know, maybe shift。
more and more away from that selfish and jealous and driven by what others think kind of motive。
towards perhaps this kind of, I want to know Christ and kind of connect with Him more?。
I think there are a few anchors that keep me hopeful and just rooted in Him, especially。
during the struggle.。
The first is the Word.。
The Word is always true.。
And just like the James passage spoke very directly to me, actually, there were many。
encouraging verses that spoke to me in the deepest moments.。
So the Word is definitely the biggest anchor.。
Second is having a community of good godly friends around you.。
And especially when times when it gets really rough and heavy to carry all the load on our。
own.。
Many people in this church, including Andrew yourself, and old and young in this church,。
prayed with me, trusted with me, believed with me in God's goodness.。
And even in times when I was having very dark thoughts, very angry, very jealous thoughts,。
some of them would come alongside me and be like, "Hey, Allison, maybe just check yourself。
here.。
Let's sit with God and wrestle with this together."。
And ultimately, when the prayers came to pass, celebrated with me with God's goodness.。
And I think that's amazing to do that with a community of people here.。
And lastly, I would say is journaling.。
This is very practical.。
I'm a very extroverted person.。
I struggle.。
Really?。
Yeah.。
I never knew that about you.。
Wow.。
Wow.。
I'm learning.。
Okay.。
Okay.。
I took a test.。
I was 99% extroverted.。
That's very funny, right?。
My husband is very introverted.。
This is why we're together.。
Anyway, so yeah, I journal because it kind of forces me to be alone with my thoughts。
and also be comfortable with them in front of God.。
And I feel that oftentimes after I journal, after I get all the verbal diarrhea out, that's。
when he comes and speaks to me in a very still voice.。
And to hear that voice of the Lord through the word or through prayer, it covers over。
everything else.。
And that's been my biggest anchor.。
Can we give Alison a round of applause?。
Thank you, Alison, so much.。
You're awesome.。
Thank you.。
All right.。
I'm going to close with four very practical things.。
I'm going to show you on a slide that you can take a photo of.。
Does that sound good?。
Has this been helpful for you?。
Okay, let's have a look at four practical ways that you can try to keep your ambition。
in check or redefine it.。
Number one, ask yourself the question, why?。
I really want to encourage every one of you to do that today.。
Whether you feel like you're a super ambitious person or not, but start with the why question.。
Allow the Holy Spirit to examine your motives.。
That's a beautifully redemptive thing to do with him.。
And I really want to encourage you.。
Number two, build an accountable community of support.。
We talked a bit about that, both myself and Alison.。
We have community groups here at the Vine.。
We'd love to make those available.。
Find a group of people that you can walk with and do life with.。
Number three, make knowing Jesus your primary ambition.。
When that becomes first, everything else flows from that.。
Even though Paul had this greatest call to bring the gospel to the empire, he said, "My。
main goal is to know him."。
If you shift your priorities into that, everything else will fall into line below it.。
And then finally, actively consider others more highly than yourself.。
That's a choice that you can do, particularly if you feel like pride is at work or if you。
feel like selfishness is available to you.。
Actively go, "I'm going to put others' needs before mine.。
I'm going to think about this, pray for others.。
I'm going to make that an effort."。
Do those four things, and I think you'll be able to wrestle with that tension that is。
so much there.。
And when we do it, maybe we'll be publicly that much more a light in the salt that Christ。
has called us to be.。
Helpful?。
All right.。
Would you stand?。
I would love to pray for you.。
Let's pray.。
And maybe as we stand, you can just open your hands and let me pray.。
Father, just so grateful for Alison, for her honesty and transparency, the vulnerability。
that we see in her that helps us to think about ourselves.。
Let me thank you for the journey that Saul went in to become Paul.。
It wasn't an easy journey for him.。
There were years where he had to redefine his theology, to rethink about the things。
that he had always assumed.。
He had to be honest about the brokenness that was within him.。
Father, I want to bring every person in this room online and the overflow to you in this。
moment.。
And I wonder whether you would just take a moment, just in the quietness of this moment。
before the Lord, just as your hands are open before him.。
For some of you, maybe you need to, like me, be honest before the Lord here this morning.。
Lord, I recognize that that drive can be unhealthy.。
I recognize my drive to achieve can push me into places that it's not good for me.。
Maybe for some of you like me, I recognize that I've hurt people around me in the drive。
to achieve my goals.。
So just take a moment with the Holy Spirit, just allow him to gently, maybe just put his。
finger on one or two things that are important to you.。
Alongside of that, we turn to Christ our Lord, grateful that he says our name twice, grateful。
that he knows us deeply and beautifully, grateful that he knows the good, bad, and ugly within。
us and is not repulse and draws near.。
And maybe for some of you here this morning, that is the hope for you as you leave, that。
joy of knowing Jesus, that joy of drawing near and him drawing near to you, that redefining。
of priorities towards knowing him as your primary ambition and the flow of that into。
every other area of your life.。
So Lord, I want to pray for anyone here where they recognize that you're not the first priority.。
Lord, would you convict us, encourage us, re-。
-。
-。
-。
-。
