Alright, so again, welcome to the church.。
You can have a seat if there's some free seats down here if you want to scoot in, feel free。
to take a seat as well.。
This is Branches of Hope Sunday.。
You've heard us say that a few times, you might have seen some of the booths outside.。
But if you're new to the church, we welcome you by the way, you might be wondering, you。
know, what exactly is Branches of Hope?。
And what do we mean when we talk about seeds of growth?。
Well, Branches of Hope is an amazing NGO that partners alongside the Vine.。
We are sort of two in one, but they do amazing work in the area of giving assistance and。
help and relief in all different ways to our refugees and asylum seekers here in this city.。
And it's had a long history, it's, you know, going through some things and there's an aim。
and a vision that we want to partner with BOH in as well.。
So to give you a little bit more about the context and the history of Branches of Hope,。
please turn your attention to the screen and welcome our founding pastor, Pastor John Snellgrove.。
Hi, I'm John Snellgrove and I'm one of the founding pastors of the Vine Church.。
I expect you're asking yourself on this special BOH Sunday, what has the Vine got to do with。
BOH? And I'd like to give you a little history lesson.。
It's time to take back almost 20 years.。
The Vine Church was known for a number of things, things like worship, worship style.。
We're also known as a church that stood up for justice.。
And when we were confronted with asylum seekers, when we actually went to visit an asylum。
seeker in prison, in Victoria Prison, who was only in prison because he overstayed.。
We suddenly realized there was a sense of injustice.。
And then one Saturday afternoon, I'm going to tell you this story.。
I was in the church and there was a group of African boys from Togo and they'd actually。
been sleeping on the star ferry because they had nowhere else to sleep.。
And they came in and asked me, you know, could I provide them a room where they could go。
and pray? And I found them that.。
And I went out and got them a McDonald's big Mac meal.。
And I guess the rest is history.。
You know, that was the beginning of our African fellowship.。
At that time, asylum seekers, children couldn't go to school.。
And next to my office was another office, which was actually a makeshift kindergarten.。
And I had to work during the day with kids making all sorts of noise.。
And I wasn't allowed to take part in the things that normal kids were taking part in.。
And I guess the most poignant story for me was of a young man called Sidi.。
He came here from the Congo and he came to us and he actually ran our African fellowship。
for a while, but he got sick and he needed a transplant.。
He needed a new kidney.。
And you know something? He wasn't even allowed to be placed on the waiting list.。
And of course, being a asylum seeker, we couldn't send him anywhere else.。
And to cut a very long story short, this man that a man used to call me dad,。
and I regarded him as my spiritual son, actually eventually passed away.。
And all of this has caused us as the Vine Church to want to do more.。
And so rather than just something that we did as a church, we decided to form our own NGO.。
We called it Branches of Hope because we believe in hope.。
We believe in justice. We believe in supporting those who cannot support themselves.。
And what we've been doing these past few years is working with refugees,。
asylum seekers, those caught in trafficking, and really doing what we can with our prayers,。
with our help, and with our finance to make their life easy.。
Their life in Hong Kong still is not easy.。
But hopefully, through the help of people like you, supporting Branches of Hope,。
we can do something. We can do something to make them feel they belong to a community.。
And I think that's what Branches of Hope has actually done.。
We've created a community here where people feel respected, they feel loved,。
and they feel part of what we're doing here at the Vine.。
In conclusion, people always say to me, "The Vine has done a lot for refugees and asylum seekers."。
I say, "Yes." But then I say, "I'll tell you something.。
Refugees and asylum seekers have done much more for the Vine.。
The Vine would not be the church it is today were it not for Branches of Hope."。
Really wonderful. So you've heard a bit about the history of BOH and where it's come from,。
but to give us a bit of an update about where BOH is now and some of the initiatives that really need our support,。
we're going to welcome Herr Porter. Hello, my friend.。
So Alex is our Executive Director at BOH, and him and his team have been doing some really cool work。
in working alongside the refugee and asylum seeker community.。
We at the Vine get the privilege of doing some quite intimate work with them in ministry together,。
in relief work together. So here's Alex to give you a bit more of an update.。
Why don't we just pray for him quickly as he comes in to share.。
So Father, we thank you for BOH. Lord, we thank you for the work that they're doing。
and for Alex's leadership over this community, over this organization.。
So just bless him today, Lord, as he shares a bit about what BOH is,。
what they're trying to do, and help us to connect with the work, Lord. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.。
Thank you very much. And good morning. I think it's full morning. Yeah, I'm sorry.。
15 minutes left in the morning. And don't worry, I'm not going to do this in German despite my heritage.。
So thank you very much, Alison. Yeah, it's great to be here.。
We're extraordinarily blessed and honored to once again be hosted by the Vine for Branches of Hope Sunday.。
Alison already mentioned I'm Alex. I'm the Executive Director of Branches of Hope.。
Our theme this year is Seeds of Growth, and this serves as a metaphor for how our work enables the community。
which we serve to reach more of their potential. And it's also a reflection of the Vine's motto, Growing Big People.。
Before Pastor Andrew takes the stage to give the work of Branches of Hope a bit more of a biblical perspective,。
I wanted to take a moment to connect the message that we heard from Pastor John in the video to what we do today.。
So to connect the past with the present. Pastor John called it a history lesson, which I think was quite apt,。
because the work of Branches of Hope actually long predates the existence of the organization。
and is embedded in the very identity of the Vine Church.。
What we do at Branches of Hope is born out of a church ministry and remains the justice expression of the Vine.。
Perhaps more importantly, we continue to provide the groups we serve with a sense of belonging and community.。
Pastor John also mentioned the Vine would not be the same without Branches of Hope, and while that is certainly true,。
we and the work we do could not exist without the continued support of the Vine Church and congregation.。
In other words, every one of you here. Even though we work in different ways, we remain inextricably linked.。
That said, Branches of Hope continues to grow and evolve, and last year we were blessed to celebrate our 10th anniversary.。
We continue the work that we do with the generous support of the Vine and others,。
and serve hundreds of families and individuals with our two programs,。
Refugee Opportunity and Development, ROAD, and Stop Trafficking of People, STOP.。
Though the needs of the two communities we serve are somewhat different,。
we have a unified approach in our service, and we call this the three pillars of service.。
Those three pillars are care, empowerment, and social change.。
While empowerment remains our core mandate by ensuring the self-agency of our communities through various personal development initiatives,。
we recognize that without addressing the basic needs of the communities we serve, we would not be as impactful as we could be.。
Hence, the care aspect of our work. Pastor Andrew will be reflecting on this in greater detail.。
And without addressing society as a whole and working towards changing hearts and minds about the communities we serve,。
large-scale, long-term positive impact would be out of reach.。
Hence, the three pillars of service, care, empowerment, and social reform, social change, continues to inform our work.。
What does that look like today?。
The STOP team reaches out on a regular basis to sex workers, migrant domestic workers, and other migrant workers。
to let them know that we are here to assist them if they or someone that they know faces a situation of labor exploitation or trafficking.。
Over the past year, the team has spent 66 hours on the streets, in public spaces on Sundays, and even in brothels to reach those vulnerable that we are seeking to serve.。
We provide Know Your Rights workshops, along with rehabilitation assistance to those who have been abused in their places of work,。
and conduct policy research to highlight best practices in prevention and response.。
Over 2,700 members of the public and the community members we serve alike benefited from trainings, workshops, and educational talks over the past year.。
Similarly, the ROAD team works very hard to fill the many gaps refugees and asylum seekers face that are left by the insufficient subsidies they receive.。
The team helps find a new home or to connect to medical services when needed.。
In the last 12 months, we have helped around 2,300 people in this way.。
Sometimes with something as small as, for example, an in-kind donation, for example, some clothes or a second-hand phone.。
In other cases, something much more major, like monthly financial assistance.。
We keep children in school by providing and covering the costs of books, uniforms, and the like.。
We provide summer activities, and we help young adults pursue a degree.。
It is with great pride that we were able to support 80 students this year alone.。
And as much as we do to foster a sense of community and offer avenues for integration,。
we recognize the hard and sad truth that, unfortunately, for the ROAD clients that we serve, none of them are actually allowed to remain in Hong Kong indefinitely.。
And so we assist in resettling community members through private sponsorships to third countries,。
and we work to ensure successful reintegration for those being repatriated.。
And over the past year, 19 of our community members were able to start a new chapter of their lives in countries outside of Hong Kong.。
As you may tell from this little window into our world, we have a lot on our plate.。
And to help you digest all this information and perhaps give you the opportunity to dive a little bit further,。
we did bring a little present for you all today.。
You'll find the pouches on your seats, which Allison already mentioned.。
Inside, there's a prayer guide, there's a brochure, and there's also the seed pencil.。
The seed pencil is a bit of a symbol for our Seeds of Growth theme this year,。
because at the base, there's a little capsule that has basil seeds inside, so you can take that home and you can plant it.。
And of course, we hope that as that plant grows, it'll be a continuous reminder of the work that we do at Branches of Hope.。
Much like a plant, we have been watered by God's grace and your and the Vine Church's generosity.。
Allowing us to meet many different needs over the past 10 years.。
And with the same divine grace and continued generosity, we will continue to work to provide dignity, justice, and hope。
for the next 10 years and beyond, to continue reaching those who would otherwise be forgotten.。
Thank you for your support.。
Thank you, thank you.。
Yeah, we're so excited that we get to do this together as a family today,。
because really at the very heart of it, Branches of Hope's work is a spiritual work.。
It is the work of Jesus Christ at work in communities, fostering unity, creating hope, bringing dignity and justice.。
And we really do see that as a work of God's Spirit.。
So I wonder whether we might be able to just do a spiritual work together as we pray over Alex and his team.。
I want to invite you guys all to stand as we do that.。
And would you stretch out your hands with me and we're going to pray over these guys together this morning.。
Father, we recognize that the work of justice, the work of empowering vulnerable communities,。
all the work that Branches of Hope does is your work.。
And it is a work that's infused by the heart of God through the power of the Spirit.。
So will we stand together as a church community and pray over Alex and what he represents with the wider team and staff。
and the clients that Branches of Hope serve.。
We pray now, Father, that you would infuse this work with a deep sense of what we were singing about in that song earlier,。
that nothing can stand against the power of God.。
And we pray that whatever issue that these clients are facing, whatever struggles that are in front of them,。
whatever obstacles seem like they can never overcome, nothing can stand against the power of God.。
And we pray, Lord, that as we lean into this idea of your power and the way in which your power shapes us。
to be people of generosity towards those that are vulnerable,。
we pray that that power would be what Alex and his team look to every single day.。
That they would understand, as I know they deeply know, in the humility that they carry,。
that they cannot do this work without you.。
And so we stand together as a community of faith and we cheer them on, we pray for them,。
and we release, Lord, everything you have in your Spirit over these guys.。
And we thank you for that in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says? Can we give Alex another round of applause? So good.。
Have a seat, have a seat.。
So 20 years ago, 20 years ago, I met a man who radically changed the way that I think about justice,。
about serving vulnerable communities, and about God's heart to reach out to those that desperately need help.。
This man actually represents so much, I think, of the kind of work that Branches of Hope does.。
His name's Joseph Fati. And Joseph Fati fled to Hong Kong from Burundi.。
And in Burundi at that time, there was a massive kind of ethnic cleansing that was taking place。
amongst competing tribes, the Hutu and the Tutsi.。
And these two tribes were going at each other all the time, and some of the tragedies were incredible.。
And Joseph Fati witnessed firsthand the horrors of ethnic cleansing.。
He was from a large farming community, and his family was one of the largest farmers in their particular region.。
And one day, Joseph Fati was coming home from a long day out on the farther ends of the fields of his farm,。
and he was late getting home. And as he gets near to his farmhouse,。
he sees that the competing ethnic group have surrounded his house.。
And they have brought out every single member of his family to the front area of the porch of their home.。
And Joseph Fati hides in the cornfields that they were growing nearby.。
He hides inside these cornfields, and whilst he's hiding there,。
he witnessed this ethnic group murder every single member of his family, one by one.。
I don't know if you could imagine what it would be like to see the people that you love,。
the people that you've grown up with, the people that you live with, systematically murdered in front of you.。
But this caused a huge amount of trauma and really disorientation for him.。
He fled out of the fields that day as the only survivor of his family.。
A wealthy friend of his enabled him to basically pay off bribes in the airport to get Joseph Fati on an airplane.。
He didn't know where he was going. He didn't even have a passport.。
But he gets smuggled onto this plane, and the plane flies from Burundi and eventually lands here in Hong Kong.。
Joseph Fati comes off the plane, he goes to immigration, he's got no passport, he's got no money,。
he's got nothing, just the clothes that he's literally wearing that day.。
He walks up to immigration, and unsurprisingly, immigration places him in a quarantine center, in a detention center.。
And there he discovers that there is this thing called UNHCR, the United Nations Human Rights Organization.。
And they give him advice as to how he can now apply for asylum because of what he's experienced and what has happened to him in his home country.。
So Joseph Fati applies for asylum, and that enables him a couple of months later to be released from the detention center,。
but he's placed in the city of Hong Kong with literally nothing.。
No finances, not given the ability or the right to work, no resources whatsoever, no family, community, or friends in this city.。
I wonder if you could imagine how lonely that would have been.。
And that's a good example of how many of those in vulnerable communities in Hong Kong feel.。
After about two weeks, only just about two weeks, Joseph Fati's found this reality that life is no longer worth living.。
So he tries to kill himself.。
And in the process of trying to kill himself, he ends up in a hospital here in Hong Kong.。
And it just so happens that his bed in the hospital in Hong Kong is right next to the bed of one of our Vine congregation members, Ailing Father.。
And this congregation member was going in daily to see their Ailing Father, and one day when they go in, there's an African man on his own in the bed next door.。
And because this congregation member is super friendly and a really nice, kind person, they notice this African man, and they wanted to know his story.。
So they asked the African man, "Well, what's your story?" And Joseph Fati begins to share his experience of what he had experienced in Burundi, getting on the flight, getting to Hong Kong, detention center, the whole story.。
And the congregation member is like torn up inside.。
And so the congregation member then tells this person their story.。
And as part of that story is their relationship with Jesus Christ.。
And two hours later, Joseph Fati prays the prayer to receive Jesus as his golden Savior.。
I meet Joseph Fati for the first time just two days later as he's released from hospital and he shows up here at the Vine.。
Back in those days, some 20 years ago, the church was much smaller than the one that you see here today.。
And we didn't really know what to do with vulnerable communities like this, but there was Joseph Fati standing in front of us and saying, "I need help."。
And so we rallied around him as best we could.。
I mean, he was the very definition of vulnerability.。
He was alone. He was without any resources in need of emergency care.。
And so we were able to raise some funds to be able to provide some food for him and get some clothes for him.。
Actually, one of our founding senior pastors, Tony Reed, opened up his whole home for Joseph Fati.。
And Joseph Fati came and lived in his house for two and a half years.。
I think that's a rather cool example of sacrificial giving in small apartments like we have here in Hong Kong.。
I remember one day I took Joseph Fati to buy a pair of sneakers.。
I went to Sneakers Street in Mong Kok.。
And I brought him what I can admit before you today to be a reasonably cheap pair of sneakers.。
But for Joseph Fati, these were like I had brought him an original pair of Jordan 1s.。
I mean, these were the greatest things he had ever received.。
You know what I'm saying?。
And we were able to meet Joseph Fati's felt needs, but in the process of meeting his felt needs, we realized that there was something else that we could never meet.。
And that was the brokenness that was inside of him, the trauma of seeing what he had seen with his family,。
the anger and hatred he had towards that ethnic group.。
And we knew that the only way that that would change would be a work of the Holy Spirit.。
That had to be something that God was going to do inside of him.。
That needed to be a transformative thing.。
And we were praying and we were believing and we were standing with him.。
But Joseph Fati was going through life now cared for, but not necessarily free.。
Free from the pain and the hurt and the anger and the bitterness.。
I remember one day, as clear as anything from 20 years ago,。
we decided to go up into the rooftop of Tony's apartment building.。
We weren't supposed to be up there, but there was five of us from the youth ministry.。
We broke into the rooftop.。
One of them had an acoustic guitar.。
It was all for Jesus, okay?。
One of them had an acoustic guitar.。
And we're up on this rooftop and we start doing worship together.。
Joseph Fati's with us.。
And Joseph Fati wasn't a very communicative person.。
He didn't talk a lot.。
He was very non-emotional.。
You never really kind of knew.。
I don't think I ever saw him smile very much before that moment on the rooftop.。
But when we're up there on the rooftop and we're singing some Christian songs。
and we're doing some worship together, suddenly he begins to weep.。
And he weeps and he weeps and he weeps.。
And you can tell that the Spirit of God is doing something inside of him.。
And we just are standing around and we're praying for him and laying our hands on him.。
And he's just pouring out, just crying after crying.。
You could see it.。
And there was this, I guess, just months of all this pent-up pain just coming now out of him.。
It was actually truly beautiful to see.。
And after he had managed to kind of recompose himself,。
he begins to tell us what was going on inside of him and what he was doing.。
And I want to read to you what he said to us that night.。
He said, "I forgive them, for I myself have found grace and forgiveness in Jesus.。
I love them," speaking of this ethnic group that murdered his family,。
"for I myself have been loved when I was not worthy.。
And I pray for them, for I myself have been prayed for by Jesus."。
In that moment, Joseph Addy was more close to the heart of God than I think I've ever been in my life.。
He was able to express something of the deep work of the Spirit of God。
and transform somebody into becoming more and more like him.。
So Joseph Addy would go on to get refugee status by New Zealand of all countries.。
Gotta love New Zealand.。
He went to Bible school there, which was partly funded by the Vine Church.。
He graduated with honors at Bible school.。
He met the woman of his life.。
They got married.。
My wife and I were able to be at their wedding.。
It was an amazing affair.。
He now lives in Australia.。
He has a growing family of his own.。
And he now works for an NGO that's actually serving people that have experienced trauma from war, just like him.。
That's somebody who has experienced something of Christian grace,。
who has experienced something of the transformative power of Jesus Christ,。
and who has now become a flourishing member of society,。
so much so that he's able to then feed into the very people that have experienced what he's experienced.。
That's, my friends, seeds of growth.。
And that's why we gather here today.。
Because whilst Joseph Addy's story is personal to him, it is not unique to the people that we're serving at Branches of Hope.。
You heard in the video about the Togo Boys and Saidi.。
And there are many others, many that are actually sitting in this room right now,。
that we at Branches of Hope are walking with and serving,。
who have similar stories of trauma, similar stories of needing to flee their countries,。
similar stories of needing to be ministered to, both with the hope of Jesus,。
but also the practical resources that come with beginning to get your life back together again.。
And although now, 20 years later, Branches of Hope does so much more than just relieving people's felt needs,。
as Alex so wonderfully just shared with us, some of that work that now Branches of Hope is doing,。
the core of our work over those 20 years has not changed.。
We, as an organization, boldly walk into vulnerable communities in our city。
with the hope of Jesus and with the reality of health.。
And through working, through relief work, we're able to provide physical, mental, emotional, and social care to those that need it the most.。
That's what Branches of Hope does.。
Now, what is it that drives this idea of us to serve those around us?。
Well, it's not just because there are needy people in society, and that just seems to be a nice thing to do.。
We serve in this way as a church community and through Branches of Hope。
because of what I like to call a "theo-anthropological imperative."。
Everybody take a deep breath.。
"Theo-anthropological imperative."。
You might be wondering, "What is that?"。
Let me explain.。
The reason why we serve vulnerable communities in Hong Kong is because God, Theo,。
has created all human beings, anthropological, in His image.。
And because all human beings are created in God's image,。
every single human being, regardless of their status, regardless of their culture,。
regardless of whether they're wealthy or they're poor,。
regardless of whether they have it all together or their world is falling apart,。
every single person reflects something of God's image.。
Therefore, everybody has inherent dignity,。
inherent worth,。
inherent purpose,。
and inherent value.。
Every single one is called to walk in the purposes and promises of a God who's created them.。
And if that's the case, then we all have a role, a joy, a life,。
to be able to serve those who are like that because we see them as one of us.。
We don't see them as people that are desperately in need and we better do some nice things because that actually makes us feel better.。
We actually see these communities as people who are made in the image of God,。
equal and powerful under God's heart, and because of that, we connect with them.。
In other words, the vulnerable should never be charity cases。
in which we kind of think of ourselves as a savior.。
No, we need to see them as children of God in which they become part of our family.。
See, when we see vulnerable communities and vulnerable people in that way,。
that's a steel anthropological imperative.。
We have this idea that they're brothers and sisters, sons and daughters, children of God.。
We have this idea that they're part of our family,。
and if they're part of our family, when we support them, it's not out of duty and obligation.。
"Oh, I guess I better do this because this is what a good Christian does."。
We support them because they're a member of our family.。
They're people just like us, made in the image of God, carrying dignity and worth,。
and so therefore we have a joy and honor.。
We serve out of love and honor, not out of duty and obligation.。
And in just a bit, I'm telling you at the end before the beginning,。
I'm going to ask you to give some money today,。
but you're not going to give out of duty and obligation.。
You're going to give out of love and respect and honor。
because we're not giving to charity cases that need a savior.。
We're giving to children of God who are part of our family.。
Are you with me, people?。
Yeah, that's a serf-something.。
Now, it's not just us that has a steel anthropological imperative,。
but Jesus embodies this.。
It was actually that that Jesus would use to speak to those around him.。
He would speak of the reality of being made in the image of God。
and how we are all children in his kingdom.。
This is the language that Jesus would use for the people of his day。
to get them to turn towards the vulnerable communities of their day.。
Now, here's the crazy thing.。
It was the religious leaders and the religious communities,。
like the divine church in the first century,。
that actually did not serve, did not help,。
did not stand in the gap with vulnerable communities.。
And it was because the Jewish leaders of the day,。
within that sort of understanding of Judaism at that time,。
those who were on the outsides, who were vulnerable,。
were seen as unclean, mostly.。
And because they were unclean, their theology was they were unclean。
because of some sin or because of some bad choices.。
That's why they're blind.。
That's why they're crippled.。
That's why they're out there.。
They've done something.。
Either their sin or poor choices has caused them to be on the outside of society.。
And if we engage with them, we're in the risk of becoming unclean and defiled ourselves.。
And so the prevailing winds of the day was that there wasn't this kind of Christian movement。
towards serving those vulnerable people.。
Instead, there was this kind of at a distance, holding them away.。
And for Jesus, this was an affront to the heart of God.。
Jesus couldn't understand how his people had gone so far away from what actually drives God's heart.。
That if these people are made in the image of God,。
then they carry that equal dignity and worth,。
and justice is to reach out to the vulnerable and broken communities。
and bring them in as much as possible because we're part of one family.。
So Jesus begins to speak strongly to the religious authorities and the people around him of his day。
about the need for them to get over this concern of becoming unclean。
and actually begin to serve the very people that they put on the outside.。
One of the places that you see Jesus do this the most is around the dinner table.。
Interesting, Jesus, man, he loved to eat, Jesus.。
In fact, a lot of scholars say that in the Gospels, Jesus was either on the way to a dinner,。
at a dinner, or leaving a dinner.。
That was pretty much Jesus.。
In this way, Jesus really was a true Hong Konger.。
Let's be fair.。
Like, you know what I'm saying, foodies in the house, you know it.。
That's Jesus, right? He was always at a meal.。
And Jesus was invited to meals because, of course, in the first century, that was the way things happened.。
That was the social context of the day.。
A lot of business was discussed that way.。
A lot of teaching was done in that context.。
Around the meal table was a very important place for relational connection.。
Now, here's an interesting context about the meal table in Jesus' time.。
The meal table was a symbol of power.。
The meal table was where if you were a host and you had a table in your home,。
and you invited somebody to come for a meal,。
you were, as the host, the person in power,。
and you would invite somebody into your home who you knew, by being invited into your home,。
they were now obligated to invite you back to their home.。
There was this reciprocal culture in the first century。
where if I open my home to you, then you are under now my debt,。
and you need to now open your home to me.。
Are you with me?。
Now, because of that culture, what it meant was a lot of wealthy people would invite even more wealthy people to their home。
because they wanted to get invited to the really wealthy people's homes.。
Are you with me?。
Isn't it great that we don't do this anymore?。
Come on, Hong Kong.。
But we do this, and we invite people over to things, we do things,。
and we kind of think that now they're kind of obligated to invite us back,。
and that's exactly what was going on in the first century.。
And so Jesus saw that the dinner table, that the hosting of it,。
that the resources of eating and drinking and community and fellowship。
was actually a power structure, a hierarchical power structure,。
and it was pushing the poor away and was only benefiting the rich and powerful.。
And Jesus, being invited into a Pharisee's home,。
because the Pharisee was expecting Jesus to give him something back,。
whether pray for him, bless him, do something for his family, whatever it might be,。
Jesus begins to stand against this prevailing thought,。
and he flips everything upside down.。
I want to read to you what Jesus actually says to the Pharisee and his host in Luke 14, verse 12.。
Everybody okay?。
Listen to this.。
Now Jesus said to his host,。
"When you give a luncheon or a dinner, do not invite your friends,。
your brothers or your relatives, or your rich neighbors,。
for if you do, they may invite you back so you will be repaid.。
But when you give a banquet, invite the poor, the crippled, the lame, and the blind,。
and you will be blessed.。
Although they cannot repay you, you will be repaid at the resurrection of the righteous."。
This is Jesus turning the table upside down, if you will.。
He's saying to the Pharisee, "You've invited me here today because you're expecting me to give something back,。
but here's the kind of table fellowship that is the reality in my kingdom."。
And he names four communities for him to invite.。
He says, "You've got to invite the poor, the crippled, the lame, and the blind."。
And those four communities were exactly the four communities that the Pharisees thought had sinned,。
and that's why they were ostracized.。
Those were the communities that they didn't want to invite in because they thought they would become unclean if they invited them in.。
Jesus names exactly those four.。
And he says, "You want to know who should be at your dinner table?。
It's the ones that you're currently keeping out.。
It's the ones that have nothing to give you back.。
It's the ones who when they come, they're only going to receive。
because they've actually got nothing to give.。
Those are the ones that should be at your table."。
What Jesus is saying here is, "Here's your mindset to vulnerable communities that don't have resources.。
If you have resources, you should open your table."。
Come on, church.。
If you have resources, if you have stuff, then you should open it towards those that don't.。
Jesus' thinking is radical.。
It's this.。
"If some have food, all will eat."。
What does that mean?。
Not if some has food, everybody.。
But if some have food, all will be able to eat.。
Because the some that have will be generous in my kingdom,。
and they will open up towards the some that do not.。
Jesus' vision for community was where everybody was invited.。
And the only way that everybody could be invited and sustained。
is if those that had resources were generous towards those that would not.。
Are you with me still?。
I don't know if you've noticed, but over the last month, we had a local artist.。
Her name is Erin Hung.。
And she came and she painted one of the windows in Pacific Coffee downstairs.。
It's the window facing Chef's Blend just on the opposite side of our street.。
I want to show you a photo of that window that she created.。
She drew this.。
I love this.。
"We are all humankind."。
The idea is we are all made in the image of God, all carry value, equal dignity.。
Notice the picture.。
Lots of different cultures, lots of different people coming around a meal table,。
all sharing together in a meal, everybody bringing the resource they have。
so no one goes hungry, no one's left out, and everybody can connect together.。
Do you see that picture?。
And that's exactly what Jesus is talking about here.。
He's saying, "If you have a dinner table, this is what you should be doing.。
If you've got resources and there are those without in your community,。
you should be thinking about how you can distribute those resources。
so those in the community can also be a part of this table experience."。
Now, I want you to see two things really quick here。
that Jesus is emphasizing through this teaching to the Pharisees.。
The first is this.。
Notice how he says in the passage here.。
He says, "Invite the very people who cannot repay you."。
Ha! I love that.。
"Invite the ones who are under no moral obligation to have to pay you back.。
Invite the ones that even if they wanted to, they can't right now.。
They've got nothing. There's nothing they can do to serve you.。
You're literally selflessly, sacrificially serving them."。
He's saying, "Invite those people."。
This is radical economic grace.。
I'll say that again.。
It's radical economic grace.。
It's Jesus saying, "Wouldn't it be amazing。
if we gave our resources without any expectation of return,。
without any expectation that they can give us anything back?"。
This is the kind of table Jesus sees.。
And I want you to know that at the branches of hope table,。
the people that are sitting around that table are asylum seekers, refugees,。
people caught in human trafficking,。
people that are dealing with the ravages of war, sexually broken,。
those that cannot get themselves up in Hong Kong culture and society,。
those are the ones around our table.。
And the beautiful thing is every single donation that comes into branches of hope,。
what that donation does is it puts literal and metaphorical food on that table.。
It provides literally food, food, water, sustenance in that way.。
But it also provides finances to enable accommodation,。
to help stand in the gap where there are material needs but also emotional needs.。
The money that's given helps some people to be able to get counseling support。
for their trauma or whatever it might be that they're going through.。
Whatever is given into branches of hope, 100% of it gets on that table。
so that those who could never pay us back。
can actually get a step up in society around us.。
This is the joy of the work we do.。
We get the great joy of partnering with Jesus。
in the radical economic grace that is found in his kingdom.。
And whenever we do that, our reward is not with the person that we're giving to.。
Our reward only will ever come at the end of all things。
when Christ brings us into his kingdom。
and we get to see everybody at that time,。
nobody without the differences of resources,。
but everybody coming together.。
And we get to say that future should be a part of the world right now.。
Because if in the future everybody is going to be equal,。
why can we not use our resources today to begin to build a picture of what that future does?。
And if we can do that, maybe people outside in the world today。
will actually look at the church and its generosity。
and see its radical economic grace and begin to think,。
"Hey, let's not exploit profits over people."。
I think I'm the only one here today. Hi guys. My name's Andrew.。
Anybody else here?。
Wouldn't it be great if companies didn't exploit profits over people?。
Could it be that the church could be a place where radical economic grace is shown。
through how we open up our meal tables?。
Literal and metaphorical meal tables for the world。
as we step in the gap to help those in need.。
Are you with me still?。
But here's the second thing.。
And this is the one that, oh, this is so Jesus.。
The second thing is he's telling the Pharisee,。
"Open up your home and invite these guests in for a meal."。
He's not talking about a takeaway restaurant.。
He's not talking about a food pant or a delivery room.。
He's not saying, "Write a check and just send it over to them."。
He's saying, "Invite them in and have a relationship with them."。
Because if they're going to sit at your table, you're going to be in proximity to them.。
You're actually going to have to connect with them.。
You're actually going to have to talk to them.。
You're actually going to have to host them for a number of hours.。
You're going to have to get to know their story.。
A little bit like my friend who was standing at the hospital bed。
decided to get to know the person's story.。
This is the intimacy of what Jesus is doing.。
He's saying this is not just about some charity.。
This is actually about the work of justice.。
You see, charity provides crumbs from a table.。
Justice allows a seat at that table.。
Are you with me?。
See, for Jesus, radical economic grace was as much about relationship as it was about relief.。
And relief was important because that needed to be there in order to bring them up into society.。
But he was also trying to create an environment where the Pharisees would actually get to know the poor and the vulnerable and the marginalized。
and those that they weren't getting to know because they were staying away from them.。
Jesus is saying you need proximity.。
I love the fact that with Jesus, he actually is with the poor far more than he talks about the poor.。
I wonder if you've ever noticed that in Scripture.。
He's actually with the vulnerable and the marginalized far more than he actually talks about the vulnerable and the marginalized.。
I find that deeply challenging.。
As I was preparing my message today, that was deeply challenging.。
I'm like, do I talk at the Vine more about justice than I do justice?。
Do I talk more about the vulnerable and the marginalized than I'm actually inviting them into my home, getting to know them?。
That's a challenge for me as your apostle.。
I wonder if that's a challenge for you.。
That was Jesus' challenge to the Pharisees of his time.。
He was saying, are you really willing to open your table, not just so that you can provide, but you can get to know?。
See, Branches of Hope is committed to not just providing a relief to someone,。
but actually putting that person in the very place where they can flourish in society the most.。
That's what drives what we do.。
We're not just about providing.。
We're also about positioning.。
Come on, church.。
Not just about providing, but also about positioning.。
Providing and positioning together.。
Now, this really is summarized for Branches of Hope in the area of what we call, within Branches of Hope, economic emergency relief fund.。
It's our emergency relief fund.。
Emergency relief fund is the idea of bringing together both relief and relationship and seeing those two things come together.。
You see, there are so many people within Hong Kong society that are in need of emergency support.。
Many of the clients that actually Branches of Hope supports are in need of emergency support.。
See, we have finances already available to provide some of the programs that we run.。
But so often when you're working with people in vulnerable communities, an emergency takes place.。
Let's give you an example.。
Recently, we see some of our asylum seekers are evicted all of a sudden from where they're living, and they're now homeless.。
Well, in those times, Branches of Hope can pivot with their emergency relief fund and provide temporary accommodation,。
whilst longer-term accommodation is being sorted out.。
Or for some of our vulnerable communities, they have a mental health issue.。
A lot of them are dealing with deep traumas like Josephati that I spoke about earlier.。
And they need counseling support to help them to get emotional balance again.。
And again, sometimes there's an episode that happens, a psychological episode, that we at Branches of Hope,。
we can step in with those emergency relief funds and help provide the kind of care that they need.。
There's also sometimes medical issues.。
You know, we all go through life, don't we, when we get sick or something happens,。
and most of us either have insurance through work or finances that we can use to go to the doctor.。
With the vulnerable people that we're serving through Branches of Hope, they don't have those funds available.。
So when they get sick, they need someone to help step in and provide immediate medical relief for them.。
And that's also something we do through our emergency relief fund.。
Let me tell you this briefly about how this fund works.。
It costs us right now about $68,000 a month in emergency relief work.。
That's an average of what it is that we pay out in this emergency relief area, about $68,000.。
Now, $68,000 goes to serve asylum seekers, refugees, and those caught in human trafficking.。
We serve about 20 clients a month with that $68,000.。
So that money goes a long way to serve 20 people.。
Now, here are the ways in which we're actually serving them.。
Housing, food, transport, medical expenses, legal costs, mental health support.。
And over a one-year basis and an annual basis, that's roughly about $800,000.。
And here's what we're wanting to do at all of our services across today on Branch of Hope Sunday.。
We want to raise that amount.。
We want to raise $800,000 today.。
And if we can do that, what we're doing is we're taking a huge burden off Alex's shoulders.。
And I work side by side with Alex pretty much every single day.。
And I know the pressures that their team are under, the burdens that they carry,。
and the sacrificial ways in which they serve these communities.。
And if we, as a community of faith, were able to say, "You know what? Our table is big enough.。
Our table is a place where we can invite people in.。
We have resources that we can give in a way that we don't expect anything back."。
I think if we could raise $800,000, we're standing in the gap today.。
And we're taking a huge burden off of Alex and his team's shoulders.。
And we're saying that emergency money that you need on a monthly basis to pivot as soon as you need to pivot,。
that money's in the bank.。
We're setting that aside for you so that you can keep your table open.。
Because the worst thing that happens is when there's not enough resources, tables get closed.。
But when we see the resources flowing across the kingdom, we can keep a seat open for people.。
People like Matthew.。
Let me tell you about Matthew.。
Matthew came to Hong Kong from a South Asian country.。
He was persecuted for his religion in that country.。
And he fled to Hong Kong and he claimed asylum at the border here.。
He was put in detention for a period of time.。
And after coming out of detention, he found himself on the Kowloon side, the Chipsaw Choy side of Star Ferry.。
And when he's standing there, he bumps into somebody from his country.。
So he begins to chat with them.。
Turns out that person also is here as an asylum seeker.。
And that person's a client of Branches of Hope.。
So Matthew gets invited to Branches of Hope.。
He comes along and hears about our services.。
And he's somebody that we use the emergency relief fund to help in that initial period.。
Get him off the streets, in the temporary accommodation, and get him set up for his time in our city.。
Matthew has become, over time, a member here of the Vy Turch.。
He's with us every single Sunday.。
And Matthew's also passionate about going back into the detention centers to serve the asylum seekers there.。
Because he knew what it was to be there himself without anybody coming visiting him.。
So he now goes on a regular basis to the detention centers in Hong Kong, visiting asylum seekers, so that he can bridge the gap for them.。
Matthew is someone who was met through emergency relief fund, but now becomes a flourishing member of society.。
Or I could tell you about Namala.。
Namala, who comes from also a South Asian country near here.。
And Namala's husband in that country was injured.。
And so much so that Namala suddenly had to provide for her whole family.。
And she knew that she couldn't do that by staying in her country.。
So she heard about an agency that was hiring people to be domestic workers in Hong Kong.。
She signs up with this agency, but the agency's a bit of a scam.。
And she gets to Hong Kong and she finds herself in labor exploitation.。
Her actual employer here abused her deeply.。
And so much so that she makes the brave decision to flee out of the house and make her living on the street.。
Well, she comes into contact with Stopper, Stop Trafficking of Persons work within Branches of Hope.。
And there they're able to take her in and help her get her off the street and get her also operating again as a normal functioning person in society through the emergency relief fund that we have.。
And through that process, she is now in a place where she's looking forward to actually going back to her home country and starting an NGO there that does work in the very areas that she found herself struggling with here in Hong Kong.。
That's somebody who's a seed of growth.。
This is the work that happens through Branches of Hope and through this idea of our emergency relief fund.。
And so in a moment, I'm going to call you to be a host of a table, to be willing to dip into the resources God has given you.。
And in this room, I know that there's a broad social economic demographic.。
There's some people in here that are very wealthy and some of us that are not so wealthy.。
Whatever it is, it's not about anything to do with that.。
It's about whatever it is that God has blessed you with, regardless if it's a lot or a little, the call is the same.。
You have a theoanthropological imperative to respond out of love and honor to those in the community around you who desperately need help.。
And I believe that as we open up the tables, both within Branches of Hope and here at Divine Church, we will be able to stand together on behalf of these vulnerable communities to make sure that nobody feels like they are unclean or defiled, but everybody feels welcomed into a community that grows.。
Amen?。
I wonder whether you would stand with me.。
I'm going to invite you to do a couple of things as we do this together.。
First of all, I want to get your little pouch that you had earlier that Ellison talked you through.。
I want you to open up your pouch.。
Inside that pouch, there is a prayer guide.。
That prayer guide has been put together by John and Tony, our founding senior pastors here at Divine.。
And that prayer guide, we're going to go through in just a moment.。
And we're going to actually pray the first day of that prayer guide together.。
But let me tell you about what's going to happen after that.。
After that, we're going to have a time of worship together.。
And I want you to understand that this is the most important part of our service.。
I want everybody's attention right now.。
Can everybody please look at me?。
Everybody stop moving and look at me.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Okay.。
This is the most important part of today.。
In a moment, we're going to have a time of worship.。
And during that time of worship, I'm going to invite you to give.。
And I believe across services, we're going to raise that $800,000 together.。
Now, as you give, you have the opportunity to do that in multiple ways.。
There are baskets right here in the lower house and two in the front.。
So two in the middle just here, two in the front.。
In the upper house, there are two baskets at the top.。
On your seat are envelopes, blue envelopes, okay?。
Those blue envelopes are a way for you to put any money in there, a check in there.。
If you want to put in your credit card details and credit card amount, you can put that in there.。
And in a moment when we're worshiping, you'll be able to drop that in the basket.。
If you want to pay directly by credit card today,。
you can even do that with our credit card machines, our Branches of Hope team right out here on the second floor have credit card machines.。
You can go to them, and you can make a one-off donation to Branches of Hope directly through your credit card, through the machines also.。
And you'll be invited to do that during our worship time in a moment if that is what you would like to do.。
We also have ways of giving digitally.。
Those are going to be on the screen during our worship time.。
So once again, you can also give digitally if you would prefer to do that.。
However you might do it, we want to invite you to stand with us today.。
Whatever God puts on your heart is exactly what it is that you are to give today.。
But before we do that, let's go into this in a place of prayer.。
And I'm going to invite Alex to lead us in day one of your prayer.。
So if you get the prayer guide, open up to day one.。
There's some places for you to respond in the guide as well.。
So, Abdi, our daily theme for Sunday is finance.。
Lord God, thank you that when you created humanity, you made us like you.。
That we might show your goodness and grace to others.。
But we have disregarded your plans and instead have become aggressive and look for ways to deceive and exploit others.。
We ask you to look down on your people again, Lord God, and hear the cry of those who are enslaved, abused and downtrodden by others.。
Lord, lift the veil of deceit which hides these crimes from being exposed and release those who are often trapped by their own shame.。
Lord, hear my cry for justice.。
We thank you for the team in Righteous of Hope and who have worked tirelessly to meet the needs of those who struggle with finance and the daily provision in life.。
Thank you for the help that our government offers and for those who have generously given to help them.。
We pray for the Vine Church who have generously gifted the administrative costs for Righteous of Hope, allowing for all donations to be given to help the recipients.。
Lord, bless this gift.。
Lord, we pray for the needs of Righteous of Hope.。
We thank you for the programs that have been designed to serve those who are victims of trafficking and the asylum-seeker and refugee community.。
We trust you to provide for our needs and touch the hearts of those who would be moved to support financially.。
Lord, hear my prayer.。
Stir up my compassion.。
So I invite you just to take a moment to reflect, to pray, and when you're ready you can fill out the envelope, you can give, you can move out towards the buckets during the worship time, you can give during this time.。
But let's do this in an attitude of prayer and worship.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
