So he had in mind to divorce her quietly.。
But after he had considered this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream and。
said, 'Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife, because what。
is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit.。
She will give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus, because he will。
save his people from their sins.'"。
I love this moment.。
It's Joseph wanting to do the righteous thing, suddenly finding his engaged teenage partner。
pregnant, knowing that they had never had union together, wanting to do the nice thing。
for her and for him, and the quiet and God showing up and saying, "Nah, I know it's weird,。
and I know it's going to be hard for you guys, and you're going to have a lot of social stigma,。
and this is going to be embarrassing, and there's going to be a lot of shame you're。
going to have to carry, because people are going to judge you.。
But you're going to bring this baby to full term, and you're going to give birth to this。
baby Mary and Joseph.。
You're going to name this baby the name that I'm giving you to name it.。
That is the name Jesus."。
In this story, it starts out, the angel says this, "Joseph, son of David."。
The name Joseph in Hebrew means God will increase, God will add, or God will make abundant, which。
really is quite a fascinating name when you think about the story of what's about to happen。
in this son that is going to be born to him, that in Jesus, the increase of glory, the。
increase of love, the increase of grace in this world will have no end.。
Joseph, the one whose God will increase, brings forth a child who will be the increase of。
God's glory in this world.。
And then God says this, he says, "Son of David," which is fascinating, because actually Joseph's。
father was not called David.。
So when you read this, your immediate thought is, "Hmm, there's something wrong here.。
Maybe God got this part wrong."。
But what you'll see is that Matthew, we don't have time to look at this in detail today,。
but Matthew from verse one onwards provides this beautiful genealogy, all of the people。
and their names who are in the male side of the line that leads up to the birth of Jesus.。
And that's a fascinating list of people.。
You can read it later, but in that name, in that genealogy over generations, you see a。
lot of amazing people, people who were kings, noble people, people that were incredibly。
wealthy, people that were known for their amazing faith.。
And in that list too, you'll discover murderers and adulterers.。
There's a rapist in there.。
There's somebody who owns a brothel and was running a brothel.。
There are people in that list where you would not want to invite them over for your Christmas。
dinner.。
So, both amazing people and really rough and sinful people all wrapped up in this family。
line that leads to the person of Jesus.。
And right in verse 16, it says this, "And Jacob, the father of Joseph, the husband of。
Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called the Christ."。
So Joseph's father was actually Jacob.。
So what's God doing when he says to Joseph, "Joseph, son of David."。
See God wants Joseph to understand that this child that's about to come into the world。
is no arbitrary child, that this child that's been conceived by the Holy Spirit is linked。
all the way back to King David, found in the genealogy line.。
Joseph's family bloodline itself weaved its way all the way back to King David.。
And this was critical because the Old Testament prophets had long prophesied that a king would。
one day come, a Messiah he was called, this anointed one of God would one day come from。
the literal bloodline of King David.。
And although David was not the first king of Israel, that was so, David became the archetype。
of what a king should be like.。
And so the prophets were saying when God comes to reign in this world as a king, he will。
come in the bloodline, in the ancestral line of David.。
David, which means by its name, beloved and favorite.。
It's almost like God is coming to Joseph and saying, "My friend, my son who will be of。
great increase in this world, you are the son of the one who is most beloved and favorite。
of ours.。
The one who which through his bloodline will be brought, the Messiah who would reign this。
world and change it all."。
So God is trying to help Joseph in connecting these names together to see that a much bigger。
picture is taking place.。
And then he says in verse 21, "She will give birth, Mary, to a son and you are to give。
him the name Jesus."。
Jesus, interestingly, was a Greek name, not a Hebrew name.。
It was the Greek name or Greek version of a Hebrew name and that name was Joshua.。
And Joshua, Jesus, means Yahweh is salvation or the Lord saves, which is a profoundly important。
thing to bear in mind on Christmas morning.。
Because when we think about what the Christmas story is all about, this is the picture we're。
given.。
That Jesus himself in carrying this name, this name which proclaims not just who he。
is but what he's about to do, a name that declares to all of Israel that the longed。
for hope throughout the whole Old Testament, which is that God would bring one who would。
be the salvation for us, the liberation from our enemies, the brokenness from our sin,。
redeeming and restoring us back into right relationship with God, with ourselves, with。
one another, with creation.。
When Lord are you going to bring this one?。
And Jesus comes.。
Joseph is told, who's the son of David, that you are to name him the very thing that your。
people for many, many years have longed for.。
Yahweh is salvation.。
This one, the Lord saves.。
This is very good news.。
Very good news not just for Israel but very good news for every single one of us here。
today.。
This is literally Christmas.。
Christmas is this.。
God bringing into the world his only son, declaring before a tired and weary world that。
a new narrative of hope has come that is greater than the current narrative of despair.。
And what was for the first century is for 2025.。
Because I don't know if you've noticed but there's a tremendous narrative of despair。
present in our world still today.。
I mean if you look at what has been happening geopolitically over the last little while,。
you'll know.。
Even here in Hong Kong with what has happened with the fires in Tai Po and the mourning。
and the grief that our city has been feeling in this season that we've been in.。
There seems to be this pervasive sense of despair.。
Oh, the economy next year is going to be terrible.。
Oh, look at this happening politically here.。
This happening economically here.。
War breaking out.。
Ridiculous things like what we saw on Bondi Beach just recently.。
All of these things taking place in our world and there seems to be a growing narrative。
of despair, of gloom, of doom.。
And could it be that the hope that was found in that stable some 2,000 years ago is still。
a greater narrative than the despair that people are talking about here today?。
Could it be that the one who saves wasn't just a story for 2,000 years ago, but a story。
for people now?。
And could it be that us here, the church, might be the ones that are to carry that story。
forward?。
Which is fascinating because in the early church, that's exactly what they did.。
The first church understood that there is a power in a name.。
They understood that this idea that Jesus saves, brings salvation from our sin and our。
brokenness, that brings that narrative of hope amongst the narrative of despair.。
They knew that this was what they had been called to hold.。
That Jesus' name was not just for Jesus, but it was a name for all.。
A name for the world.。
I mean, Jesus himself brought this narrative to the disciples.。
Have a look at what Jesus says right at the end of his very story as he gathers the disciples。
in his resurrection and gives him his final words.。
He says this in Matthew 28, 18.。
"Then he came to them and said, 'All authority,'" this is Jesus speaking, "'all authority in。
heaven and on earth has been given to me.。
Therefore, go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father,。
the Son, and the Holy Spirit.'"。
The disciples understood that their call and mandate was to take this name, this powerful。
name that Jesus saves, and bring that narrative and that story of hope into the world, recognizing。
that the hope was not going to be found in themselves.。
It was only going to be found through the power of the name of Jesus.。
And so the disciples begin to do this in their everyday lives.。
There's this great story just at the beginning of Acts where Peter, one of the disciples,。
is walking towards the temple and he goes past the gates in the city and the temple。
called the Gate of Beautiful.。
Right by that gate, there's a beggar, a crippled man who's asking for money and cries out to。
Peter as Peter's walking by and says, "Would you give me some arms?。
Would you give me some money?"。
And Peter stops and responds to him.。
Let me read you what Peter does.。
This is verse 6 of Acts chapter 3.。
"Then Peter said, 'Silver or gold, I do not have for you.。
But what I do have I can give you in the name of Jesus Christ.。
Walk.'。
Taking him by the right hand, he helped him up.。
And instantly the man's feet and ankles became strong.。
He jumped to his feet and began to walk.。
And then he went up with them into the temple courts, walking and jumping and praising God."。
There's this moment of miracle because Peter said, "I don't have anything personally I。
can give you.。
And I'm certainly not wealthy enough to give you some money.。
But what I do have I will give.。
And that is the powerful name of Jesus that heals and restores and renews.。
That his name literally means the one who will bring salvation.。
And the restoration that you need in your body is found in his name.。
So in the name of Jesus, walk,' he says.。
And he takes him by the hand and he stands him up.。
And this man who was famous as the beggar at the gate of beautiful probably had sat。
there day in, day out for years begging for alms, known well to the worshipers in the。
temple, goes into the temple and starts praising Jesus.。
Starts praising God in the very place where God is praised.。
And all of the Jewish people, including the rulers and the law, look at him and say, 'What。
happened?'。
This is no, sorry, Alison, but this is no snowmaking thing.。
This is like a true miracle.。
I mean, this is one that really did actually happen.。
And because it happened, the rulers of the law bring this man into their court.。
And they say, 'You need to describe to us what happened here because we can't understand。
this.'。
And this man begins to say, 'Well, this guy came up to me and he said, 'In the name of。
Jesus,' and my whole life changed.'。
And this was an affront to the rulers of the law at the time because they had heard about。
this Jesus and they believed that he was a hypocrite.。
They believed that he was speaking things that were against Yahweh.。
They didn't agree with this Jesus.。
And here's this idea that in the name of this Jesus, this one had been healed.。
So they bring Peter before the court and they demand Peter to tell them the truth.。
Let us know exactly what happened.。
In other words, what trick did you do to make this work?。
Notice what Peter says in the court.。
This is chapter four, starting in verse eight.。
Then Peter filled with the Holy Spirit said to them this, 'Rulers and elders and of all。
the people, if we are being called to account today for an act of kindness shown to a cripple。
and are asked how he was healed, then know this, that you and all the people of Israel,。
that it is by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified, but whom God。
raised from the dead, that this man now stands before you healed.。
He is, Jesus being the stone that the builders rejected, which has now become the cornerstone.。
Salvation is found in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given to people。
by which we must be saved.'。
He says before all of the rulers and parities and authorities, he says, 'There's no other。
name.。
There's no other name that can restore and renew and heal and save.。
There's no other name that can bring life and abundance.。
There's no other name that can bring grace.。
There's no other name that can forgive sin.。
There's no other name other than Jesus that can restore him.。
The one you killed,' he says to the powers and authorities around him, 'he was raised。
from death to life by God and in relationship with him, in coming under him, in asking him。
to forgive us of our sins, we are renewed.。
And that is the one name and only name that can save.'。
Christmas my friends, is the turning point of all history.。
It is the naming of a child who would change everything.。
Carrying forth this idea that Yahweh is salvation.。
That through relationship with this one, everything from despair and pain and hurt and suffering。
gets renewed into the glorious idea that there is new life.。
Paul years later would write this beautiful thing, 'if you are in Christ Jesus,' in other。
words, if you have brought your relationship under his authority, you are a new creation.。
The old is gone, the new has come.。
So I wonder if you can get the sense for Joseph in that dream where the angel says, 'name。
your child this.'。
Joseph was no arbitrary name, for there is no other name in this world by which we are。
free.。
No other name by which we can gather to celebrate.。
No other name by which there is hope.。
Not the name of your favorite movie star, sorry.。
Not the name of your best friend.。
Not the name of yourself.。
Not the name of your bank account.。
Not the name of your investment portfolio.。
Not the name of your job.。
Not the name of anything else.。
As great as those things might be in our lives, the only name that will save, Jesus.。
Not only does that name save you, but that name literally does miracles.。
Yes, snow falling in the world, but crippled people finding new legs.。
The blind getting sight.。
The deaf getting hearing.。
Those that were caught up in shame and pain, given new life and abundance.。
What we celebrate here this morning is not just the idea that God has given us a gift.。
We celebrate here this morning a new narrative of hope in this world that literally changes。
everything.。
That's Christmas.。
That's worth celebrating.。
That my friends is joy to the world.。
I wonder whether you would stand with me and I would love to pray over us.。
Father, thank you so much for each person gathered here today.。
Children, adults, everybody in between.。
Lord, you have met us so beautifully.。
And Lord, we are so grateful that you carry this name, the name of Jesus.。
And Father, as we stand before you in this moment here on Christmas day, I want to maybe。
take a moment to be like Peter before the crippled man at the gate of beautiful.。
And so Lord, I want to pray over any family here where sickness or disease is having a。
hold on that family this Christmas time.。
Maybe a recent diagnosis, maybe an ongoing disease or sickness.。
Maybe people in the wider family not feeling how they should be.。
Father, as the Vine community, we stand together not in the power of our name.。
But Lord, we want to pray for these family members who maybe are not feeling the best。
that they could feel.。
We say in the name of Jesus, would you bring healing, restoration, would sickness go in。
the name of Jesus?。
Lord, would you strengthen these family members of ours that we bring before you now in name。
and thought?。
In the name of Jesus, would you change their lives?。
And perhaps there are people in your life and in your sphere of influence that you long。
to see come to Jesus.。
Father, we thank you for each of these.。
Maybe you can just bring them to mind in your heart right now.。
Lord, as we think about these people in our sphere of influence that we long to be in。
relationship with you, Lord, there is no other name by which they can be saved other than。
yours.。
So we pray in the name of Jesus, Lord, that you would move mountains to find them, that。
you would use us to share the good news with them, or you would use people around them。
to do so, but that you would find them.。
They would find you and salvation would come to this house.。
We pray that in the name of Jesus.。
And finally, I want to pray for anyone here in this room right now and in our overflow。
area.。
Maybe someone's brought you to church today.。
Maybe you've come and maybe you don't normally come to church and maybe this whole religion。
thing seems strange to you, but I want to declare before you that there is a narrative。
of hope that is in this world that is far greater than any narrative that is currently。
around your life.。
Any narrative of despair or struggle or hardship, any narrative of anxiety or fear or worry,。
the name of Jesus is a name that brings a new narrative of hope, of life, of goodness,。
of joy.。
And for every person here, that is open to you this morning.。
And so I want to boldly pray for you, if that is for you.。
Maybe you're here this morning and you're like, "I don't have all the answers.。
I don't know exactly what this is all about, but I recognize that I need hope in my life.。
I recognize I need something new for me.。
I'm tired of the narrative of despair."。
And if that's you, it's just a simple prayer in your heart this morning.。
One of the things that we know about Christmas is that there's this idea of Emmanuel, God。
with us.。
And the simple prayer for you this morning is, "Lord, would you just make yourself known。
to me?。
Would you reveal your presence to me?。
If you're real, would you, even today, show me something of who you are?"。
That's a powerful little prayer.。
A simple thing to do.。
And I believe that if you pray that prayer honestly, God will always honor that prayer.。
And that he will come and meet you, bring his presence to you, bring you peace and love。
and joy.。
And through that, show you how to repent of all of the things that you've carried and。
that have weighed you down, the sin that entangles us all and brings us into new life and joy。
within him.。
So Lord, for any brother and sister here in this room, where that's their prayer this。
morning, Lord, we celebrate this gift of salvation with them.。
We ask, Lord, that you would meet them today.。
And that maybe they would ask the person that they've come with, "Hey, I prayed that prayer.。
Pastor Andrew asked us to pray.。
I don't have all the answers, but would you help me on the next steps?"。
And that, Lord, we would see salvation, not just in the name of a child, but in the presence。
of our families.。
And that would be a beautiful thing.。
We thank you for this, for the joy that this brings us here on Christmas Day.。
And we just pray this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says?。
Amen.。
Amen.。
And we continue to worship together as we celebrate the birth of Jesus.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
