- So good.。
I'm, my name's Andrew.。
I'm one of the pastors here at the Vine.。
And if you're relatively new to the church,。
we're packed in here today with Overflow as well.。
Hey to everybody who's in the Overflow.。
We're so glad you're a part of our community.。
Everybody joining us online.。
My uncle and aunt actually are joining online here today.。
So it's great to have Pam and Ken with us as well.。
As I step into the pulpit here this morning,。
I do so really sensing the importance and the weight。
of the time of history that I think we're in right now.。
And in particular, the importance of our faith,。
our belief in Jesus to actually really mean something。
in the world right now.。
'Cause I don't know about you,。
but I think the world is in a really ugly place right now.。
Anyone else sensing this?。
I think we can see if we're looking at the news。
and our social media feeds,。
it's really easy for us to see that the world。
is more volatile than it's ever been before.。
I would say the world is more violent。
than it's been for a long time.。
The world is more divided.。
There is more hatred.。
There are more challenges.。
I don't know about you, but it's like for me,。
when I'm waking up in the morning,。
I have to take a big deep breath before I open my phone,。
before I jump on my social media feed。
and take a look at the news.。
'Cause I'm wondering what is it gonna be today?。
Anyone else feel that way at the moment?。
Like what's the next shooting gonna be?。
What's the next terrorist act going to be?。
What's the next stupid thing。
that some leader of some government's gonna say?。
And when we kind of sit in this,。
we realise that it's not just one city。
or one country or one culture.。
This is kind of a global thing。
that is happening at the moment.。
And this should deeply challenge us as Christians.。
In fact, when we're living in a time。
like we're experiencing right now,。
where it really does feel like the world。
is in a super difficult, challenging, dark and ugly place,。
I think it asks of Christians a very specific question.。
A question to which the answer。
will not only shape the future of the church itself,。
but actually shape the future of the world itself.。
And here's that question.。
What should we do as Christians。
when the world has gone crazy?。
I wonder if you've been asking yourself that question lately.。
Like what should we do as believers of Jesus?。
As people where the scriptures say。
that the same spirit that raised Jesus from the dead。
is inside of me.。
What should we do as Christians。
when the world around us seems to be as crazy。
as it is right now?。
And while I would put it to you。
that I think this is the most critical question。
that the global church should be asking right now,。
here's the thing.。
It is not the first time。
the church has had to ask that question.。
In fact, if you look back over human history。
and particular over church history,。
there have been many, many times。
where it feels like for Christians。
that the world has spun out of control.。
Many times where it feels like the world。
is suddenly broken out from underneath us。
and we're kind of floating。
and we're not sure if we got any solid ground。
for us to land on.。
The question about what Christians should do。
when the world has gone crazy。
is something Christians have been asking for 2000 years.。
And I wanna show you as we start today。
how I would say there are four primary models。
that church over church history has embraced。
as an answer to this question of what we should do。
when the world goes crazy.。
Here's the first one, I would say it is to escape.。
And in this idea through church history,。
the reality has been is that the world。
looks something like this.。
The world is this depraved, broken, dark,。
kind of ruined place.。
And we as Christians, we find ourselves in a world。
that's spinning out of control,。
in a world that's getting uglier and uglier,。
more divided, more hostile, more violent.。
And here's our thought.。
Our thought is, can we just get out of it, please?。
Like if we could just bungee jump out of this world。
and get up to heaven, then finally everything will be okay.。
And through church history, there have been theologies。
that have helped the church to think about。
what it will be when we get out。
of the ugliness of this world,。
that everything burns here so that we can go。
and enjoy eternal life on some fluffy cloud up there.。
This kind of thinking kind of came into the church。
as early as the third century through the monastic movement.。
Now, the monastic movement had some fantastic things。
about it and to it even to this day.。
But the monastic movement at its heart was this idea。
of let's just get out of the impurity of this world。
so that we can create something where we can find。
just a solid place of purity amongst ourselves.。
What we've seen in church history of the answer。
to the question of what do we do。
when the world goes crazy?。
Let's just get out of here.。
The next one that we've seen in church history。
is this one that I like to call insulate.。
So on this one, it's not so much the escape,。
but it has the same kind of idea.。
Here's the world and the world is that dark and evil。
and broken place.。
And here are us Christians and we are in this world.。
Whether we like it or not,。
the reality is we're in the world.。
Didn't Jesus himself say,。
"I've called you to be in the world," right?。
But then how does he follow that?。
What does he say?。
But not of the world.。
He said, "I want you to be in the world,。
"but not of the world."。
And so there's been a movement through church history。
where it's like, okay, we can't escape this thing.。
I guess we're here until we die.。
But whilst we're here, what we're gonna do。
is we're gonna insulate ourselves。
from the darkness and the brokenness。
and the hurt and the pain and everything else in the world.。
If we can just keep the world out of our churches,。
everything will be fine.。
And this kind of thought of insulation was really big。
in like even just recent church history,。
I would say in like the '80s and '90s。
where we saw the rise of Christian culture,。
particularly in the West.。
And it was like, let's just Christianize everything.。
We're gonna Christianize music,。
we're gonna Christianize movies,。
we're gonna Christianize TV shows,。
we're gonna Christianize education.。
Everything's gonna be Christianized.。
And if I'm a Christian and I have a family,。
I'm just gonna make sure my family exists。
in a Christian bubble and this horrible world cannot enter.。
Are you with me?。
Insulate.。
Now, what we've also seen through church history。
is this next one that I call control.。
What do we do when the world seems。
to be spinning out of control?。
Well, here's the response to this.。
Again, the world is seen as this dark, terrible, horrible,。
it's overwhelmed by sin and brokenness and evil.。
But in this response, the response is,。
no, we're not gonna escape, we're not gonna insulate.。
Instead, we're gonna fight back.。
And we're gonna fight back by actually trying。
to completely turn all of this thing。
into as much Christianity as possible.。
And we're gonna take our Christian religion。
and we're gonna try and control everything else.。
Now, in this approach,。
the idea sounds good on the surface, doesn't it?。
These two feels a little bit like。
we're trying to escape everything.。
This one though, on the surface, sounds good.。
We're just gonna try and turn the world into Christianity.。
Now, even though it sounds good,。
here's the problem throughout church history.。
The problem is, even though maybe the idea。
of wanting to see all of our cities,。
all of our countries worship Jesus,。
we've come to think that the only way that's going to happen。
is if we take control of the situation.。
And by taking control of the situation,。
church history has shown us that we've done that。
by actually taking worldly mechanisms and worldly power。
and thinking by using worldly power。
to try to Christianize a nation or Christianize a culture,。
that's the right way to go.。
And unfortunately, what happens is we take worldly power。
and we dress it up in Christian clothes.。
And we think that we just need。
to legislate the kingdom of God.。
It's more of a top-down approach。
where when you look at the role of Jesus。
and the life of Jesus and what he tried to speak about。
with the disciples, it was a bottom-up influence,。
but this one says, "No, we can do it top-down."。
This happened in the late 11th century。
at the beginning of the Crusades。
and it's happened in many different ways.。
And I would argue is currently manifesting itself。
a little bit in some countries in our world。
with the rise of Christian nationalism.。
The fourth one is this idea of conform.。
So when the world spins out of control and gets crazy,。
what are we going to do?。
Well, here's what we're gonna do.。
Yes, the world is broken, it's bad, it's hurting,。
there's a lot of suffering。
and we are Christians in that world,。
but you know what?。
Let's just not rock the boat a little bit here.。
Let's just, we think that Christianity。
has something to say to the world,。
but let's just be nice.。
Let's just make sure that we're not rocking the boat,。
we're not doing anything crazy,。
we're not doing anything that might get us into trouble.。
In fact, why don't we just make sure that everybody likes us?。
And if everybody likes us,。
then everything's gonna be okay, surely.。
Like that's what we want.。
And so what we do is we end up turning our churches。
into places that feel exactly like the world.。
And rather than standing on some of the beliefs。
that we have and some of the scriptures that we have。
and some of the ways in which we are supposed to be different。
living a different renewed story in the world around us,。
we actually begin to look more like the world。
than the world does.。
And we have found ourselves in a place of compromise,。
in a place of kind of consolidating ourselves into the world。
and the reality is the world begins to shape the church。
more than the church is shaping the world.。
And when that takes place,。
now this happened in Jesus' time,。
the Sadducees, the Jewish Sadducees were this mindset,。
let's just try to get on with the Romans,。
let's try and kind of work with the Romans。
and maybe God will come and do something amazing.。
And from that time on, I think this happens an awful lot.。
So I want you to see two things。
in how the church has responded through history。
with this idea of what do we do when the world blows up.。
Now, I want you to notice two things.。
Number one, here's my confession.。
I can see myself in all four of these.。
Anyone else can do that?。
Like if I think about how I have a tendency。
to wanna respond when I see the world kind of go crazy,。
I can find an honest confession。
that there are times when I wanna escape,。
oh Lord, would you take me tonight。
'cause I can't take it at the vine anymore.。
Oh, the people, Lord Jesus, rapture me now.。
Did you hear apparently that a pastor said。
the rapture was like a few weeks ago?。
So you all didn't make it?。
Anyway, so there's this thought, right?。
I can feel this in my spirit.。
Equally, I can feel this.。
Like I just wanna be insulated.。
I just wanna kind of forget about it all for a moment.。
I just wanna kind of retreat into my own little world.。
I can see this, I can feel this at times.。
Like I'm just gonna not let anyone actually know。
kind of what I really believe or really think about that。
because I just wanna kind of like,。
just get on with everything.。
So here's what I want you to do first of all.。
I want you to look at these four models。
that church history has predominantly embraced.。
And I want you to think about your time right now。
dealing with your social media feeds,。
seeing the stuff that's happening in the world,。
seeing all the things。
that we're wrestling with globally right now.。
Which of these four is your one。
that you're most likely to default to?。
Can you do that for me for a second?。
Just have a think about that.。
Are you one that's more likely to escape, insulate,。
try to control your environments or try to conform to it?。
That's the first thing.。
Here's the second thing.。
I want you to see that three fourths of these,。
three quarters of these。
are basically the response of Christianity。
to remain private in a time when the world is falling apart.。
Notice this, escape, insulate and conform。
are essentially Christians。
taking what Christ has done in their lives,。
taking all the things that Christ has renewed。
and done in them,。
the Holy Spirit that is placed within them,。
taking all of that and remaining private about it,。
rather than allowing those things。
to have some sort of public impact around them.。
It fascinates me that the church through history。
has embraced privatization of faith。
over the engagement of the culture in which it is planted.。
And this is significant。
because I think that this is not just something。
that we see in church history.。
If I'm honest with you,。
I think it's something that we all struggle with today.。
I think when things get hard,。
when we find things challenging,。
when everybody in our office。
is talking about the craziness of the world,。
it's much more easy for us to conform to that conversation。
than to stand apart to it.。
It's much easier for us。
to actually just kind of keep our faith to ourselves。
at the very moment when the world needs that faith.。
When the world needs that faith the most.。
Think of it this way.。
I think one of the greatest temptations。
that we have as the church。
when the world goes crazy is this,。
to privatize our faith and actually move more inward。
rather than outward with what we believe.。
And can you imagine that that has been the response。
through history that we would, in times that are difficult,。
more go inward with our faith。
than outward with the very thing。
that can help the broken world around us.。
Escape, insulate, conform, whatever it might be.。
But that private response。
is what we wanna challenge over the next seven weeks.。
Because that privacy is alive in all of us, I would argue.。
And I wanna challenge you with that as well.。
I mean, think about it for a moment.。
Do you feel like you quite often compartmentalize your faith?。
Finding yourself super Christian。
when you're in the right environment with the right people。
and finding yourself super quiet about it。
when you're in a different position or a different community.。
And it's interesting when this happens。
because you're probably sitting there thinking like,。
I don't know if I do that, Pastor Andrew.。
I don't know if that's for me.。
That's a word for my neighbors。
sitting right next to me right now.。
Like that's a great word for them, but I think I'm fine.。
I don't think I privatize my faith.。
Do I privatize my faith?。
Let me just be honest.。
In a lot of the conversations that I have with us here。
at the Vine and conversations I have。
with other Christians and other churches,。
here's some things that I hear from us。
that I think moves us towards private faith。
rather than public faith.。
Let me share a few of these.。
Here's the first one.。
My faith is just very personal to me.。
I hear Christians say this all the time.。
My faith is just really personal to me.。
Oh, it's so personal.。
I mean, Christ has saved me。
and he saved me from this terrible time in my life.。
And it's just so deeply personal。
and deeply intimate with him.。
And I just am so grateful that I have this private,。
personal, intimate relationship with him.。
And to be honest with you,。
I'm pretty happy with that relationship.。
So happy in fact, that if I shared it。
or I allowed others into it,。
it would probably pollute what I have.。
And because of that, we stay, it's almost like this.。
It's like you discover a restaurant in Hong Kong。
and it's an amazing restaurant.。
The food is incredible and it's super cheap.。
And you're sitting there thinking,。
I hope nobody finds out about this restaurant.。
I hope nobody finds out about this restaurant。
because if they do, it will get ruined.。
When we say as Christians,。
my faith is just really personal to me.。
What we're essentially saying。
is that I wanna keep it personal。
because I think if I shared it,。
I would lose something of its value to me.。
And I wanna put it to you, just this,。
I'm gonna be honest, that's incredibly selfish.。
Here's another thing we say.。
We say this.。
We say, well, every person has the right。
to believe what they wanna believe.。
And that's absolutely right.。
I mean, that is what a good, open。
and free society should be built on.。
We should want everybody to have the freedom。
to believe what it is that they've been called to believe.。
And that means that I have the freedom。
to believe that Lord Jesus Christ。
is my personal saviour here in Hong Kong.。
That is an amazing thing.。
People should be free to believe what they want to believe.。
Now, in a true statement like that,。
here's the issue with it though.。
I think for us Christians is that there's some baggage。
that comes alongside of it,。
some broader thinking that comes alongside of it.。
And here's that thinking.。
It's this culture, you do you, I'll do me.。
Like you do you.。
Like Alison, I'm totally cool with you doing you, man.。
You got a baby strapped around you right now.。
Like you do you, Alison.。
I'm gonna do me, right?。
And you're happy with me being me.。
I'm happy with you being you.。
Go for it, girl.。
What that's basically saying is you keep you private.。
I keep me private.。
And that's the way we're gonna be.。
We're just gonna live like that.。
I'm never gonna challenge you.。
I'm never gonna debate with you.。
I'm just gonna go, no, no, no, no, that's you.。
You do you, right?。
And what that does,。
even though we think we're saying the right thing,。
what that ultimately does is causes us as Christians。
to keep our part private.。
Or maybe we say this, I'm not blank enough yet.。
So I'm not gonna share my faith。
because I'm not blank enough yet.。
I'm not maybe wise enough yet.。
I'm not experienced enough yet.。
I haven't had as many years as a Christian enough yet.。
I don't understand the Bible enough yet.。
I'm not strong enough or brave, whatever it is.。
We place so many excuses in the blank space there.。
And we say, no, no, no,。
I'm gonna just keep my faith private.。
And so I feel I'm super equipped and ready to share it.。
When we do that, people are walking past us。
every single day, crying out for more hope in a dark world.。
And you're there going,。
I don't think I understand revelations enough yet.。
When the gospel sits inside of you。
and is dying to get out.。
I think sometimes we also say this,。
I'm embarrassed by what other Christians do publicly.。
This is the one that I resonate most with.。
I'm just being honest with you.。
There's some stuff in my feeds。
that I've seen in the last couple of weeks。
of Christian pastors and people I know,。
Christians and people that I follow。
who are representing a version of Christianity。
that to me is abhorrent.。
And when I see that, here's my response.。
It's not, I need to get out there。
that represent a better view of Christianity.。
It's me going, I hope no one thinks that my faith is that.。
Are you with me?。
And when we start to think like that,。
here's what our tendency is.。
I'm just gonna sort of separate myself。
from all this Christian talk stuff.。
'Cause I don't want people to think。
that my Jesus is that Jesus.。
So I'm gonna be very private and keep to myself。
and just keep believing what I believe.。
And I'm just gonna whatever.。
And I'm just so embarrassed or angry。
or shamed by what they're presenting.。
I just don't wanna present anything。
'cause I don't wanna be associated with it at all.。
Okay, are you following this?。
So we do these things and this is how privacy in our faith。
begins to grip inside of us.。
And when this happens, here's what will happen.。
You will end up living a dualistic Christian faith。
where you'll be super pumped up for Jesus。
on a Sunday in a gathering like this,。
but then Monday to Saturday, no one would ever know.。
And you'll justify it by saying, it's personal to me.。
Have you seen what they're doing?。
I don't wanna be associated with that.。
We'll justify it with I'm not X enough yet。
or whatever it might be.。
But we'll end up living this dualistic life.。
Here's what fascinates me about this idea。
that we as Christians generally like。
to keep our faith private.。
It's actually interesting。
because all of the other intimate relationships。
in our lives, we love to proclaim.。
Like take a look at your social media feed.。
Your social media feed that you put out in the world。
will primarily be, look at my baby.。
Or look at my husband, look at my wife.。
We just celebrated my daughter's 15th birthday.。
It was awesome.。
Look at Mia, 15, woo-hoo, there's a cake and family。
and we love each other, right?。
So the relationships that are super intimate to us。
that we find very personal and whatever,。
all of those relationships,。
we long to put out there into the public sphere。
so that other people can see that we have a great family,。
we have a great relationship, great marriage,。
whatever it might be.。
These are the things that are valuable to me。
and I'm putting it out there for the world to see.。
But as Christians with our relationship with Jesus,。
why is it that we so often walk。
in the opposite spirit to that?。
Fascinates me.。
It also fascinates me that here, I've come to realize this,。
that the relationships that we often want to keep private。
are usually the relationships that we know are wrong.。
Come on.。
We know they're wrong.。
We know we shouldn't be doing that.。
We wanna keep that private。
because if our boss found it out, we'd get fired.。
If our wife or our spouse found it out,。
we'd probably get divorced.。
And so the stuff that we know is wrong,。
we deem to keep private.。
The stuff we want people to think about us,。
we want to bring public.。
But when it comes to the church。
and when the world becomes a dumpster fire,。
we retreat rather than engage.。
And when we do this, I'm not just talking about。
the reality of sharing the gospel and evangelizing Jesus.。
I'm also talking about the fact。
that we often keep as Christians private。
very much our values, very much our behaviors,。
very much the things that Christ is doing。
in a process of sanctification in our lives,。
making us more and more like Christ Jesus.。
That stuff we also suppress.。
The very stuff that changes our thinking,。
changes our decisions, changes our thoughts,。
changes our decisions, changes our habits。
that should be shaping and molding us。
to show the world the hands and feet of Jesus.。
This stuff we also keep quiet.。
It's not just, I wanna tell you about Jesus Christ.。
It's also more compassion, more love, more humility,。
more servant heartedness,。
even that we somehow keep private.。
When the Holy Spirit has taught us and changed us。
and has called us to live for Him in such a way。
that we need to understand that when the calling。
of a more public faith,。
it's not just for individual benefit.。
When we're called to a more public faith,。
it's so that we might show the love of Christ to the world,。
not just with our words, but also with our actions,。
with our decisions, with our habits, with our character,。
and with the things that we also say.。
And in doing that, people begin to see something。
that in the darkness of the world,。
before that they were not able to see.。
This is why when we think about our response。
through church history,。
we can understand that the way is not to escape.。
The way has to be to lean in and to engage,。
but that has to be not through a worldly empire。
and a worldly power model.。
There has to be a better way.。
There has to be another way to engage this world。
that truly brings it to life.。
Dietrich Bonhoeffer writing at the time。
where the world really was a dumpster fire.。
In the time of the rise of Nazi Germany。
as a German Christian himself,。
looking at the church around him。
and seeing how conforming the church was。
to a significant moment in history, Bonhoeffer wrote this.。
He said, "Any community of Jesus。
"which wants to be invisible or dominant。
"is no longer a community that follows him."。
The prophet Bonhoeffer speaking into our time today,。
I believe.。
As we see all the challenges that are around us,。
this is the deep question we need to be asking ourselves.。
Is there a better way than this?。
And if there is, what does it look like?。
And that's what the next seven weeks are about.。
I'm done.。
Would you stand with me?。
I'm gonna pray.。
No, just don't stand.。
But that's what the next seven weeks are about.。
We wanna open up for you.。
What is the better way?。
There is in my mind, another model.。
There is the model that we see。
in the life, death and resurrection of Jesus.。
The manifesto of Christ that he brings into the world。
and says, this is the way we should be.。
Even if there's an empire, even if there's oppression,。
even if there's persecution, even if there's injustice,。
even if there's the darkness and the hatred。
and the bigotry and everything like that.。
Even when that's alive, this is how we should be。
as the church, as believers in Jesus.。
What we see in the life of Christ is a new and fresh way.。
And so what I wanna do this morning。
is I wanna just start the process。
of shining a light onto this new way.。
And over these next seven weeks, we're gonna unpack that。
as we look at different spheres of influence。
that each one of us has in our lives。
and how we can be living more publicly。
for Christ in those spaces.。
There's a passage at the beginning。
of the Sermon of the Mount,。
Jesus' manifesto of how Christians should be in this world。
from Matthew 5 to 7.。
But there's a bit just at the start of it。
where he speaks directly to how we should be。
when the world has gone crazy.。
And when he's writing this or saying it。
in the original time, it was a crazy world with that empire.。
But even the readers, the first readers。
of the Gospel of Matthew, who probably in about 70 to 75 AD。
had just seen what Nero had done as the emperor。
in destroying the temple, killing many Christians,。
and then reading this and thinking, hang on a sec,。
we want to escape this Greek or Roman empire right now.。
We want to insulate ourselves.。
But even into that moment, here's what Jesus says.。
He's like, you wanna know how to be?。
Here it is.。
You are salt of the earth.。
But if the salt loses its saltiness,。
how can it be made salty again?。
It is no longer good for anything。
except to be thrown out and trampled by people.。
For you are the light of the world.。
A city on a hill cannot be hidden.。
Neither do people light a lamp and put it under a bowl.。
Instead, they put it on its stand。
and it gives light to everyone in the house.。
So in the same way, let your light shine before all people。
that they may see your good deeds。
and praise your Father in heaven.。
Jesus's response to what Christians should do。
when the world goes crazy,。
simply says you are salt and you are light.。
And in these two metaphors,。
he unpacks for us a new and better way.。
Let me just break them down real quick.。
Salt, in Jesus's time,。
salt really carried three specific things.。
Preachers of this passage have come up。
with multiple expressions of what salt can do。
and all that.。
But actually, when you think about。
only through Jesus's eyes, when he said these words,。
you're salt of the earth,。
what were the things that were on Jesus's mind?。
There would only have been three things。
'cause this is the way salt was in those days.。
The first was that salt had incredible value.。
Salt was a rare and invaluable commodity in those days.。
Such a valuable commodity, in fact,。
that a lot of Roman soldiers were paid not with money,。
but paid with salt.。
This is where in the West we get the expression,。
that person's not worth their salt.。
Ever heard that expression?。
It comes from this idea that salt was so valuable。
that soldiers were paid with salt.。
The actual name for it was salarium,。
which is actually where you get the name salary from.。
So this idea, when Jesus says,。
you are salt of the earth,。
he's like saying, you are the value。
that I place in the world.。
So you have this inherent, beautiful value。
'cause you got the gospel inside of you.。
That same spirit that raised Jesus from the dead。
sits inside of you.。
There's so much value and treasure in you。
and I've placed you in the world.。
So when you remain private。
with the value that is inside of you,。
not only are you devaluing yourself,。
you're also devaluing the world.。
Think of it this way.。
It's like getting paid a salary,。
receiving that salary, putting it in a bank account,。
never spending or using that salary,。
and then complaining that you're poor.。
This is what Christians do in the world.。
When we are escaping, insulating or conforming,。
here's what we say.。
We have the Christ, the gospel inside of us,。
but we don't do anything with it。
and we still complain that the world's on fire.。
And Jesus stands by you and says,。
you're the salt of the earth.。
You're the value.。
Yes, the gospel is me, not you,。
but that gospel sits inside of you.。
You're now my hands and feet in the world.。
You bring value.。
And if you don't act, if you don't do,。
if you don't be in the world with the values of the kingdom,。
you're devaluing the world。
and you're not doing what you've been called to do.。
It's simple, he's saying.。
Which is really interesting。
because salt was always designed to be placed on something.。
Salt in a salt shaker is useless.。
Think about it this way.。
In the same way that salt that only exists。
in a salt shaker is useless,。
so is a Christian who only exists in the church.。
Come on church, come on.。
In the same way that salt that only exists。
in a salt shaker and is never poured out is useless,。
so is a Christian who only exists in the church.。
That's not what the church is here for,。
to just gather us together once a week and make us feel good.。
The church, as it says in Ephesians,。
is the manifold wisdom of God to the world.。
We are to be poured out.。
The second thing Jesus would have thought about。
when he says, "You're the salt of the earth,"。
is that salt was a flavor enhancer,。
much in the same way that we use it a lot today。
when we're cooking food in our homes。
and going to restaurants and having food given to us.。
Salt is a flavor enhancer.。
And not only does it bring its own flavor,。
but salt, when it's used right,。
actually brings the flavor out of the meat itself。
or brings the flavor out of the fish。
or whatever it is that it's on.。
It enhances the flavor that is already contained there.。
So when Jesus says, "You are the salts of the earth,"。
what he's saying is, "You are the ones。
"that I'm sending into the world to bring new flavor。
"and to enhance the flavor of that world."。
Almost like without you, the world is dry,。
it is tasteless, it is bland, it is helpless,。
but you, as the salt of the earth,。
are the flavor enhancers in the world.。
And when you are active as a Christian。
in the public spheres that I've placed you in,。
you make things taste better.。
You make the world better,。
which is a different way of thinking than these models.。
'Cause in these models, it's like, "The world is terrible.。
"I just need to get out of it."。
And when Jesus says, "You are the flavor enhancer。
"of the world," what he's saying to you is,。
"You better stay in the world。
"because I've created value in the world.。
"I've created beauty and wonder and goodness in the world.。
"But if the Christians are not present, no one will see it.。
"You are salts of the earth."。
Now, if it's true that salt enhances flavor,。
then could it be that one of the reasons。
why we're seeing so much brokenness in the world today。
is not because evil abounds, but because Christians don't?。
When the church falls silent,。
all people are left with is the tastelessness of the world.。
Come on, church.。
When the church stays silent,。
all there is left is the tastelessness of this world.。
You are salts.。
The third thing he would have thought about。
is that salt was a preservative agent.。
It was the very thing that in an age before refrigeration。
and ice, at least in the Middle East,。
they had no way of preserving the food from decay,。
natural decay and natural going off.。
So salt was used to pack around meat。
or pack around lamb or pack around fish。
to preserve it for the long time。
in an age before refrigeration.。
So when Jesus says to the disciples,。
"You are the salt of the earth,"。
what he's saying is, "You're the preservative agents。
"that I am releasing.。
"I'm literally packing around the culture, around the world。
"so that the world does not decay.。
"Like I don't wanna see the world decay.。
"I don't wanna see the world dark and blank.。
"I don't wanna see evil abound.。
"I wanna see the church rise up.。
"And when you rise up,。
"it's like you're the preservative agent,。
"which ensures that the culture and the world does not decay.。
"'Cause look, I'm not gonna bungee jump you out of here。
"so you can go sit on a fluffy cloud.。
"No, the prayer I taught you is heaven come to earth."。
And the picture in Revelations 21 and 22。
is a new Jerusalem coming to earth.。
And Jesus says these things,。
"Behold, I make all things new, not all new things.。
"So you're the preservative agents of a world。
"that is desperately in decline。
"when you keep your mouth and life shut."。
Think about this.。
When Christians remain private in their faith,。
they contribute to the decaying of the world.。
It's pretty strong.。
So Jesus lays this all out.。
And then he says, "You're light of the world."。
Which is fascinating。
because when he says, "You're light of the world,"。
later on, he's gonna say, "I'm the light of the world."。
But here he says, "You're the light of the world."。
What he's saying is,。
here's what happens when you go into the public spheres。
with your faith, again, sharing the gospel,。
but also living the values of the kingdom。
publicly before you.。
When you do that, he's saying,。
"It's like you're shining a bright bolt of lightning。
"into the darkness that is around."。
And here's what that light does.。
Yes, number one, it shines a light on what is broken。
and decaying and what is evil and sin。
and helps people to see that they can repent。
and find new life in Christ.。
Absolutely.。
When we share the gospel and live the gospel publicly,。
we are inviting people in to realize。
that the way that they're living right now is not right,。
but that there is a loving and faithful God。
who will forgive them in repentance。
and birth them into new life.。
But it also means that when the light shines。
through a church that moves publicly in his faith,。
the things that are good in the world。
that people prior to that could not see。
are illuminated again for them.。
That the hopelessness that people feel,。
the way of looking and saying, "Nobody here is good.。
"Nobody loves me.。
"Everybody hates me."。
When we as Christians begin to show love, live love,。
be love to the ones around us。
who are so darkened by the brokenness around them,。
they can begin to see that there is hope,。
hope in Jesus Christ first and foremost,。
and hope in the world and the body that he's created.。
It's beautiful invitation to be this light.。
So when the world goes crazy and we're tempted to think。
that it's either to privatize ourself,。
to escape or insulate or conform,。
we have to realize that, no, we've been called to engage,。
but not engage in a way that takes worldly power。
and dresses it up in the name of Jesus。
and tries to control from the top down,。
but a world in which we as the salt and light。
move from the bottom up,。
offering hope and preservation and flavor enhancement。
and shining light so that people can see。
and the world begins to shift and change.。
One of my favorite New Testament scholars。
is a guy by the name of Craig Blomberg.。
He's brilliant on the parables。
and he's written on this idea of salt and light.。
Let me read you what he writes.。
He says, "Both the metaphors of salt and light。
"raise important challenges。
"about Christian involvement in society.。
"We are not called to control secular power structures,。
"neither are we promised that we can Christianize。
"the legislation and values of the world.。
"Instead, we must remain active, preservative agents,。
"indeed, irritants," love that word,。
"in calling and revealing to the world。
"God's heart of love."。
We are active, preservative agents。
of a world that God has created and that He loves so much.。
We are irritants to the evil and the sin。
and the brokenness of this world,。
to the injustice which grasps a hold of so many people.。
We get to live a better model.。
And Jesus points to what that is。
right at the end of verse 16 here.。
He says this, "In the same way,。
"let your light shine before people that they may see,"。
what? "Your good deeds."。
So what's Jesus' model?。
It's not escape, it's not insulate, it's not control,。
it's not conform.。
What Jesus is saying, there's another way,。
and here's the summary of that way,。
"Your good deeds."。
In the Greek, if you translate these words,。
it means this, beautiful or lovely works.。
Not talking about moral good,。
talking about wonder and creativity and beauty and love.。
He's like, "The deeds you do。
"that brings my beauty to the world."。
Now, what are those deeds?。
Well, it's interesting 'cause Jesus starts this section,。
we're looking at with a direct thing.。
He says, "You are the salt."。
He says, "You are the light."。
And right at the end, he says,。
"Because you're doing these deeds.。
"And when you do these deeds, people will glorify Jesus."。
And so we're left to say,。
"Well, what are those deeds, Jesus?"。
Well, he's already answered that。
before he even gets to this passage.。
So let's jump back and have a look at what he says。
right at the beginning of the chapter。
in verse three of chapter five.。
"Blessed are the poor in spirit,。
"for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.。
"Blessed are those who mourn, for they will be comforted.。
"Blessed are the meek, for they will inherit the earth.。
"Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness,。
"for they will be filled.。
"Blessed are the merciful, for they will be shown mercy.。
"Blessed are the pure in heart, for they will see God.。
"Blessed are the peacemakers,。
"for they will be called sons and daughters of God.。
"Blessed are those who are persecuted。
"because of righteousness,。
"for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.。
"Blessed are you when people insult you, persecute you,。
"falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me.。
"Rejoice and be glad, because great is your reward in heaven。
"for in the same way they persecuted the prophets。
"who were before you."。
You are the salt of the earth.。
You are, in other words, what he's saying is。
being salt and light is not a command, it's a response.。
It's a response out of what we are doing。
as we live our faith more publicly.。
And what does it mean to live our faith publicly?。
It means to mourn with those who mourn.。
It means to stand with the peacemakers.。
It means to be merciful.。
It means all of the things。
that we just read in the Beatitudes,。
that does not sound like escaping, insulating, conforming,。
and it definitely doesn't sound like controlling.。
It sounds like a better way.。
Now, when we read the Beatitudes,。
we often read it like this, that I need,。
if God blesses these kinds of people,。
the poor in spirit, the meek,。
the ones that are peacemakers,。
then I need to be those people and God will bless me.。
So oftentimes when we read the Beatitudes,。
we put ourselves in the position。
of the person who's getting blessed.。
Do you follow that?。
So I just need to be more meek.。
I just need to be, this is the kind of person I need to be。
to get God's blessing.。
When Jesus says, "You are the salt of the world.。
"You are the light of the world。
"because you're doing these beautiful, lovely deeds,"。
what Jesus is saying at the beginning of the Beatitudes。
is actually different.。
He's not saying, "Be the one who is the meek。
"and the mild person."。
He's saying, "Here's the role of the church.。
"Here's the role of the Christian.。
"You are the ones to bless the peacemakers.。
"You are the ones to bless the meek.。
"You are the ones to bless those who mourn.。
"You are the ones to bless those who hunger。
"and thirst for righteousness.。
"You're the ones who do these lovely, beautiful things。
"of blessing as I would bless。
"when the church moves in my heart,。
"when the church moves in my spirit。
"and comes around those who are hurting and broken。
"and vulnerable and marginalized。
"and seeks to bless, seeks to love, seeks to offer grace.。
"This is what changes the darkness in the light.。
"This is what takes the world and brings its flavor.。
"You are the ones to bless."。
Those are the lovely deeds, the good deeds,。
the beautiful deeds that when people see you do it,。
their inclination is not, "You're amazing."。
Their inclination is, "I never knew God was like that."。
So when we hear rhetoric about hate coming from the church,。
when we see rhetoric about power and control。
and top down coming from the church,。
we have to sit again in these profound words of Jesus。
and think again about what it means to not be private,。
but to be public, but not in a way that leads。
to some Christian nationalism,。
but in a way that offers the gospel。
as Jesus always intended it to be offered.。
To those that desperately need it,。
shining light in the darkness of sin,。
shining light into the goodness of the world,。
preserving, enhancing, creating value.。
That, my friends, is the church alive.。
But the church is only alive when we decide。
to move from a place of privacy in our faith。
to a place of living for Christ.。
As he called us to.。
And over the next seven weeks,。
that's what we're gonna unpack。
in all the areas of your lives.。
Amen?。
Could you stand with me?。
I would love to pray with you.。
Father, I thank you so much。
for each person here in this room,。
in our overflow, those that are watching online right now.。
Father, we pray we come to you in prayer,。
recognizing at the start of this seven weeks。
that we are desperate for this new model.。
Grateful that you look at us and speak over us。
and say you are salt, you are light.。
Father, would you help us where we recognize。
that the escape, insulate, control, and conform。
is still well and alive in the global church,。
is still well and alive inside of me,。
and I'm sure many of us in this room.。
Lord, would you help us to not just see。
that there's a better way,。
but begin to walk in a better way.。
And Father, where we're tempted to,。
in a time like this, ironically, keep our faith more quiet.。
Father, I pray you would light a fire。
in people in this room,。
to have the urgency,。
the urgency not to escape, to insulate,。
to control or conform.。
But the urgency to serve like you served,。
the urgency to wash the feet of the people around us,。
the urgency to love our enemy,。
the urgency to offer grace, the urgency to mourn,。
the urgency to bless the peacemakers,。
the urgency to reach out to the people。
that the rest of society seems to be condemning。
and ignoring and avoiding.。
Would you give us an urgency to be like you?。
(gentle music)。
I just want you to take a moment。
just in the quietness of your heart.。
Maybe there's a confession for you。
to bring to the Lord today.。
As Jesus is present with you now,。
no condemnation that comes,。
he's not whacking you with a stick,。
but there is this beautiful sense of conviction。
that does come,。
when we realize that we've drifted。
from being salt and light.。
Where we realize that we've decided to embed ourselves more。
in the privacy and the personal nature of our faith.。
And perhaps your prayer today is just to ask the Lord。
to forgive you for that natural tendency。
that you might have.。
Ask him to show you how you can break。
the temptation to privacy in this time.。
And then invite him to strengthen your courage.。
To strengthen your resolve.。
And to show you once again, the beautiful, lovely deeds.。
The simple things this week that you can do.。
To serve as Jesus would serve.。
To make the world a better place.。
Father, we thank you that this gospel of yours。
is counter-cultural.。
On the surface, it sounds weak.。
But Lord, this gospel of yours。
means that there is no other name。
that is higher than your name.。
As we sang in that song earlier,。
that we would take the place of suffering。
so that we would rise in you.。
Lord, I pray that in this time。
where the world has gone crazy,。
we would not escape, we would not insulate.。
We would reign in the fear that drives control.。
And we would stand against the conformity that comes.。
And we'd be salt and light again.。
And we thank you for this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says, amen.。
Let's continue to worship together.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
