and we pray in Jesus' name.。
- Amen. - Amen.。
- Thank you, Jen.。
And good afternoon, everybody.。
Good afternoon, welcome back, Andrew, as well.。
I hope you can see, you know,。
you should be proud of your team, Andrew,。
'cause we've really been thriving in the past four months.。
It's been really good.。
I really wanna-- (audience laughing)。
We have, you know, but it's credit to you, too.。
And we have an amazing team.。
You know, I wanna honor the team。
that's been leading from the pulpit as well.。
It's such an honor to work with such an amazing。
group of people.。
And for us to be able to hear a variety of, you know,。
perspectives and voices on different topics。
around the Bible, I think it's been really, really good.。
So yeah, shout out to the worship team as well.。
You know, every time they come together and they plan,。
you know, there's a reason why the service flows together.。
It's because thought and preparation and prayer。
has been put into it.。
And so yeah, it's been a good journey.。
And we've journeyed through forgiveness, too,。
over the past few months, over the past couple of weeks.。
And today, like Jennifer said, we're wrapping up the series.。
And even though, you know, the topic of forgiveness。
as a sermon series ends today,。
the journey of forgiveness has to continue.。
And so the message that I'm bringing today。
has been sitting on my heart for the past couple of weeks.。
I've been fasting and praying up to today for this message.。
And so before we start, I hope that we can pray again。
and that you can pray for me as I bring God's word。
and open up scripture together.。
So let's pray again.。
Yeah, Jesus, just thank you for this journey。
that you've had us on and that you'll continue。
to lead us into, Jesus.。
And I pray that as we open up your word today,。
that yeah, it would just be truth.。
It would just be encouraging and challenging。
and yeah, lead us closer to you, Lord.。
We pray this in Jesus' name, amen.。
All right, got a question for you before we get going.。
What is the worst date that you've ever been on?。
The worst date you've ever been on, okay?。
Maybe some of you are on a date right now。
and you're like, the worst date is when the person I'm with。
brought me to church instead of to brunch。
or to high tea or something.。
Okay, that was what you were expecting.。
You ended up here instead, okay?。
I hope it's okay, all right?。
I'm gonna share one of my experiences with you, okay?。
Mind you, this was about 20 something years ago now, okay?。
I was a freshman, a fresher at university in London, okay?。
And so, you know, I was trying to get to know people,。
new city, new school.。
I decided to sign up for a psychology class.。
Now, I decided to sign up for psychology。
because people told me a lot of girls do psychology, okay?。
At UCL, so I thought, don't judge me, okay?。
I was 18 years old, okay?。
Some of you come here because of the girls, okay?。
So, all right, so.。
Okay, so. (laughs)。
I'm not looking this way, okay?。
(audience laughs)。
I joined the class, okay, and I got anything I learned,。
but the girl that sits next to me, she's nice, okay?。
And so, and we start talking, and then, okay,。
I thought, you know, okay, we're getting along.。
Maybe I'll ask her out and see what she says.。
So, one day after lecture, I say,。
tomorrow, you know, after psychology,。
do you wanna go out for lunch together?。
And she says, yes, okay.。
I say, good, so far, so good.。
I tell her, well, let's go to Wagamama's.。
And she agrees, okay, now, for those of you。
who don't know what Wagamama's is,。
it's a restaurant chain in London, okay?。
It's fusion food, okay, where they take Japanese food。
and make it disgusting, okay?。
That's sort of what Wagamama's does, okay?。
Lot of Londoners don't like it, but I love it, okay?。
I'll tell you why in a minute.。
So, lunch date comes along, we're eating,。
conversing, getting along, you know, chatting.。
Oh, you're from Hong Kong, it's fun, isn't it?。
Yeah, all that kind of stuff, you know,。
and having a good time, okay?。
And, you know, the meal comes to an end,。
and it's time to pay the bill.。
Now, being the gentleman that I am, right,。
and the one who initiated the date,。
I thought it was only appropriate that I pay for the meal.。
But it was also because I had a secret weapon, right?。
You see, I had coupons, all right?。
(audience laughing)。
A few weeks before this, all right,。
I found on the internet, buy one, get one free, okay,。
at Wagamama's, right?。
It was just right there on the website.。
So, I, like, printed out, like, 50 of these things, okay?。
It was, like, went to the library, logged in, you know,。
printed off 50 of these Wagamama coupons,。
I had a little stack of them, okay?。
It was amazing, all right?。
I had them in my backpack, ready to use at any time, right?。
So, the bill comes along, it's like, I got this.。
And she seems impressed until I say, I got a coupon.。
It's buy one, get one free, right?。
And I pull out my stack of coupons.。
In my mind, I thought this girl was gonna be like,。
oh my goodness, look at this frugal Chinese man, right?。
Handsome and frugal, right, boyfriend material, right?。
But instead, the look on her face was one of,。
I wouldn't say disgust, but it was pretty close to that,。
okay, and she didn't have to say it out loud,。
but the expression she had told me, like,。
oh my gosh, this guy is so cheap, okay, like,。
he took me to Wagamama's on a two for,。
it's not expensive in the first place, okay,。
on a two for one at Wagamama's, right?。
Now, needless to say, there was no second date, okay,。
but I kept eating at Wagamama's。
and two of those coupons ran out and it was great, right?。
And I wish I could have said I've changed since then,。
but not really, okay, I'm still cheap, all right?。
For example, the first wedding anniversary,。
my wife and I are celebrating 15 years。
in December of being married, okay, so yeah.。
But true story, on our first wedding anniversary,。
I'd planned this, okay, I was saving up。
all the loose change I had for the whole year.。
So I had this little, like, bucket of loose change,。
and I was gonna use that to pay for dinner。
on our first wedding anniversary, right?。
So that in itself was already kind of cheap, okay?。
So I go to the bank and I say, okay,。
I wanna cash this in, I wanna make it into cash.。
And they said, oh, there's a 2% service charge for that.。
It's like, 2%, I'm not gonna pay that, okay?。
So in the end, what I ended up doing,。
I took the bucket, it was like a bucket literally of coins,。
and I took it along with me to our dinner date。
on our first anniversary, excuse me,。
and I paid for dinner using coins, okay?。
I'm not joking, okay, it was like a $1,000 dinner。
in fives, twos, and ones.。
I had to count them out after the meal, okay?。
Brittany was, she had run away by the end of the meal,。
so embarrassed, okay, I didn't care, I don't care, okay?。
It paid for the meal, all right?。
So, yeah, that's me, okay?。
Now you'll see in a minute。
why I'm sharing these stories with you.。
But over the past few weeks, like I said,。
we've been taking a deep dive。
into this topic of forgiveness.。
And I hope it's been helpful, right?。
I hope it's given you a better understanding。
of what God's heart is when it comes to forgiveness,。
because we've really needed it.。
I shared it in the beginning of the series as well.。
I felt that this was a heart cry of the church, right?。
And I wanna show you something.。
So this bowl right here, okay,。
this is full of the prayer requests。
that we wrote out during Converse。
at the beginning of this year, right?。
All of these have to do with forgiving others,。
forgiving ourselves, forgiving lots of different things,。
all on our struggles for forgiveness.。
And there's even more, hundreds of them written out,。
your heart poured out on this topic of forgiveness.。
But as I was thinking about this,。
and I was thinking about us,。
and I was thinking about this series,。
I began to realize that actually there might be some pitfalls。
in focusing on forgiveness so much, right?。
In all this talk of needing about to embrace forgiveness。
because it's what God has done for us, right?。
In the realization that yes,。
Jesus has taken away our guilt and our shame,。
he holds nothing against us.。
One of the risks is that forgiveness starts becoming。
something we take for granted, right?。
Our mindset becomes like,。
hey, since forgiveness is always there,。
then I've just accessed it when I need it, all right?。
So we can help ourselves to it whenever we want, right?。
I'm gonna live my life, do whatever I want,。
and just ask for God's forgiveness later。
because it's been promised to me.。
And then on the other side of that,。
we start even to maybe apply that。
to the way we relate to each other, right?。
When it comes to forgiving each other,。
we start using forgiveness like a weapon, right?。
We hurt each other, but instead of doing the hard work。
of confessing and repenting and actually changing ourselves,。
we develop the mindset of, well, you know,。
you have to forgive me because Pastor Ellison。
and Pastor Jen and all these people have been saying so.。
Or I can hear right now, maybe you and your spouse,。
you and your partner having an argument.。
You know you're wrong, you know you've messed up,。
but instead of owning up to your mistakes,。
outcomes in your mouth,。
or haven't you been listening to the sermons?。
Why don't you just forgive me?。
All right, listen, if that's what we've come away with。
at the end of the series,。
then I think we've got the wrong end of the stick.。
In other words, if we come away from the series。
thinking forgiveness is something that we can do cheaply,。
just like coupons or coins, all right,。
we've wasted our time.。
Because forgiveness cannot be cheap.。
And forgiveness is not cheap because it was God's idea.。
It's this great and amazing gift to us.。
So we really have to treat it as something that's precious.。
Right, in the beginning of this series,。
we said also that forgiveness is going to be a journey.。
Right, we're gonna learn how to forgive。
at the end of this series.。
And again, I feel like we've missed something.。
I feel like I missed something.。
Because I've realized the journey。
isn't really learning how to forgive.。
Right, you can actually learn how to forgive。
in lots of different ways.。
Right, in like the scientific world,。
if you wanna use that word,。
forgiveness is something that's good for you physiologically.。
Right, so there's health benefits,。
you embrace forgiveness, right,。
the lowest stress and anxiety in your life,。
all those good health benefits。
that forgiveness can give you.。
Right, Buddhism teaches forgiveness.。
Right, Buddhism teaches that forgiveness。
is the way to reach inner peace.。
Right, so if you want inner peace,。
you have to embrace forgiveness.。
Right, Hinduism says forgiveness,。
you should practice forgiveness for the sake of karma.。
So in the next life,。
you don't wanna come back as something ridiculous。
and you practice forgiveness so you can have good karma,。
right, and eventually reaching。
the heights of self-realization.。
Right, in Islam, the Quran teaches forgiveness。
as one of the virtues that Allah is impressed with.。
So the more you forgive,。
the more riches you store up for the next life in heaven.。
So the goal cannot simply be good at forgiving.。
There's so many routes we can take to be forgiving.。
No, the goal is this.。
Our goal in life is to become more and more like Jesus.。
Our goal is to learn what it means。
to enter through the small and narrow gates。
that leads to life.。
Our goal is to discover that Jesus is the way,。
the truth, and the life,。
that no one comes to the Father except through him.。
And what I've realized is it's only。
when we learn to be like Jesus。
that we can truly live out and practice forgiveness。
as God intended it to be.。
If we just learn how to forgive。
without learning how to be like Jesus,。
then we've missed the point.。
So we're gonna open up Scripture,。
and the passage we're gonna look at today。
will remind us of this ultimate goal in our life,。
and it will challenge us to follow it.。
Matthew 16, verses 24 to 26, Jesus says this.。
Jesus said to his disciples,。
"Whoever wants to be my disciple must deny themselves。
"and take up their cross and follow me.。
"For whoever wants to save their life will lose it,。
"but whoever loses their life for me will find it.。
"What good will it be for someone to gain the whole world。
"yet forfeit their soul?。
"Or what can anyone give in exchange for their soul?"。
We like to talk about the benefits of following Jesus,。
and it's good, and it's great,。
and forgiveness is one of those great benefits that we get。
when we give our lives to the Lord.。
Once we accept Jesus as our savior,。
we believe that our sins are forgiven。
and that we are what is called justified.。
The basic idea of being justified means。
that because of God's forgiveness,。
our sin is no longer on record.。
He blots it out, the debt of sin has been paid,。
which means that when God looks at us,。
he doesn't see sin, instead what he sees。
is one who is clean and pure.。
You can think of it as someone as if,。
just as if they had never sinned。
because of what Jesus has done for us.。
But notice though, this is not totally free.。
Of course it's free for you and me,。
but it came at the great cost of Jesus' life.。
And because it came at a great cost,。
like I've been saying, we cannot treat it cheaply.。
We cannot treat it with contempt.。
Because if we do this with cheapened forgiveness,。
you know, you're like me,。
you like seeking for coins and coupons at Wagamama's, right?。
We just use it whenever we need.。
And we have to realize that forgiveness is free for everyone。
only because Jesus paid the price in the first place.。
Right, the price we could not pay for ourselves.。
Now, it is available to all,。
but what we're looking at today。
is that there are certain conditions God gives us。
in order to properly embrace this free gift and his benefits.。
The point of forgiveness is not just to comfort you,。
to make you feel better,。
for you to go back and do the same thing over and over again.。
Forgiveness from God is meant to change you,。
to mold you, to encourage you to become more like him.。
In other words, if you really want to know。
the benefits of forgiveness,。
you must become a disciple of Jesus.。
And when it comes to the journey of discipleship,。
when it comes to being like Jesus,。
it comes with a cost, it comes with a change to your life.。
Right, this makes sense.。
This only makes, because if not,。
anyone else, anyone could call themselves a Christian,。
right, and just keep living however you want,。
and just keep asking for God's forgiveness.。
But don't you see again,。
that's cheapening what forgiveness is.。
If you want to call yourself a Christian,。
if you want to truly profess。
that you are following Jesus with your life,。
it's going to come at a cost to us as well.。
And there are things you're gonna have to be changed。
in your life in order to live as a disciple of Jesus.。
So what does it cost for us to follow Jesus?。
Well, let's go back to the passage。
and find out what it tells us.。
Verse 24, Jesus starts by saying this.。
If anyone would come after me,。
anyone, this message is for anyone.。
Anyone means anyone, right?。
This means you, this means me, this one, anyone,。
who's listening to this right now, anyone.。
It's an open invitation to all people。
because God wants everybody to follow him.。
But also notice the word if.。
If anybody.。
If means this is a choice.。
If you want to do this, this is what it's gonna take.。
Jesus always gives us a choice, right?。
He's not gonna drag you, kicking and screaming.。
That's not free will, that's not free choice,。
that's not real love.。
He's asking us to make a decision.。
If we want to come after him,。
these are the things that we're gonna have to do.。
And he's about to explain there are some requirements, right?。
We're gonna deep dive deep into the definition。
of what it means to follow Jesus.。
And I'll tell you right now, right,。
it's not just coming to Sunday service.。
It's more than just giving an offering or a tithe.。
It's more than just volunteering。
or being a part of a community group,。
as great as those things are.。
So the one serious question we have to ask ourselves,。
maybe the most serious question you'll ever ask yourself。
in your life is this.。
Do you want to go after Jesus?。
Do you want to be a disciple of the Lord?。
Because if you say yes,。
following Jesus is gonna drastically change your life.。
If you say yes, I'm about to teach us。
what we need in order to follow him.。
Or Jesus is about to teach us.。
So he says this, firstly, we must deny ourselves,。
deny himself, deny herself.。
The first step of deciding to follow Jesus。
is to deny yourself.。
Now, what does this mean?。
Right, it's more than just self-control.。
It's more than just, ooh, I'm not gonna have。
that last piece of cake that's on the table, right?。
That's not really what it means。
when it calls denying yourself.。
No, denying yourself is talking about the full。
and total surrender of your entire life into Jesus' hands.。
Okay, hang on a sec, 'cause we live in a day,。
think about this for a sec, okay?。
We live in a day and age where the prevailing mindset。
seems to be you can and you should have whatever you want.。
This world tells us to take control of your life.。
You can do whatever you want,。
you just have to take control of your destiny.。
It's up to you, follow your heart, do all that stuff.。
And there's this belief out there that teaches us。
that we are so in control of our lives。
that you can truly have anything you want can be yours。
if you could only manifest it.。
Right, you guys heard about manifesting?。
Right, this idea of making everything you want。
and to feel and experience into a reality for yourself.。
And you can do this apparently through your thoughts,。
actions, beliefs, and emotions.。
In other words, the world teaches us,。
deny yourself nothing.。
But if it makes you feel good,。
if you think that's what's good for you,。
go and do whatever you want to do.。
Listen, okay?。
This sounds good, it sounds attractive.。
Do whatever you want, have whatever you want,。
deny yourself no pleasures, all right?。
I admit it does sound good.。
Right, some preachers out there might even say,。
you know, this is the life God wants for you.。
Bliss, happiness, all those things, right?。
Blessings all the time.。
But church, this is a lie.。
Right, think about it for a minute.。
If life was all about making yourself happy,。
then why would we need God at all?。
If life was just about pleasing yourself。
and you could just manifest everything that you want,。
we wouldn't need God, you'd need God.。
So denying yourself is really about discovering。
the true purpose in your life.。
Right, and your purpose is not for the pleasure of yourself.。
Your purpose in life is not to live。
a happy, comfortable life,。
just to die peacefully in your sleep.。
Your purpose in life is not to climb the corporate ladder。
and get to the highest ranks of your profession.。
Your purpose in life is not to find a life partner。
and spend the rest of your life with.。
No, your purpose in life,。
your only purpose in life is to follow Jesus。
by being an image bearer of God.。
Your purpose in life, church,。
no matter what the world says,。
is to worship Jesus with all your heart,。
mind, and strength,。
and to be an example of his love to others.。
Above everything else,。
this has to be your ultimate goal in life.。
And for you and I to be able to do that,。
we have to deny ourselves.。
We have to be willing to say,。
"Everything else in my life is gonna take a back seat,。
"and I'm gonna be fully dedicated to being more like Jesus."。
Now, I know this sounds extreme.。
It sounds foolish.。
It sounds almost as though Jesus。
is trying to kill all our personalities, right?。
Make everyone act in the same way.。
It sounds as though Jesus is trying to get rid。
of everything that's enjoyable in your life,。
forced you to be grumpy and miserable all the time.。
It sounds a bit like that, I know, right?。
It sounds a bit like Jesus saying,。
"Don't have fun, don't enjoy your life.。
"Just do what I tell you to do."。
But that couldn't be further from the truth.。
There's a story, famous story in the Bible。
of the rich young ruler, right?。
This is a rich young ruler,。
a person who has everything he has in the worldly sense.。
And he encounters Jesus,。
and he's actually interested in following Jesus.。
But when Jesus challenges him to deny himself。
of his significant wealth and possessions。
so that he could follow him, he couldn't do it.。
And the Bible, Scripture tells us he walked away。
grieved in his heart,。
even though he was still holding on。
to everything that he ever wanted.。
On the other hand, when Zacchaeus,。
also a wealthy man, who was interested in following Jesus,。
when he encounters Jesus, he realizes his sin,。
and he willingly gives up and denies himself his wealth,。
even paying back four times as much。
that he had taken from other people.。
And in his case, Jesus declares,。
"Salvation has come to this house today."。
The one who was willing to deny himself。
discovered the meaning of life.。
The one who was not willing to deny himself。
walked away from the giver of life.。
So church, let me remind us today,。
denying yourself, surrendering fully。
to anything Jesus wants you to do。
is the first step we have to take。
in the life that you were meant to live,。
the life of following Jesus.。
But then how do we do it?。
How do we do this thing to deny ourselves?。
It's not just a matter of strong will and self-discipline.。
It's gonna take more than that.。
We can achieve a lot of things。
through strong will and discipline.。
I've done two marathons and two trail walkers。
with zero training, literally, I'm not joking,。
based only on my will.。
I kept going.。
It took me like five and a half hours。
to finish the first marathon.。
I was limping across the finish line.。
I just kept myself, just keep going.。
Don't get on that bus, just keep going, okay?。
No training, though.。
I don't recommend it.。
I was dead the next day, okay?。
But that's not the tactic, right?。
This isn't just like grit your teeth。
and I'm gonna deny myself and keep going, keep going.。
It actually takes even more than that.。
This is not a call to self-discipline, church.。
This is a call to death.。
Because Jesus says the next step is to pick up the cross.。
Pick up your cross.。
Now again, the idea of picking up your cross,。
it's sort of a teaching that's been cheapened。
by the world's thinking.。
When we hear this phrase, right, it's sort of cutesy.。
Like, you know, I'm gonna pick up my cross。
like a little bird and I have to bear.。
Okay, for example, you know, the gout in my toe.。
You know, every time I have a beer, the gout flares up.。
You know, so, you know, my cross to bear。
is this gout in my toe.。
Or maybe it's an annoying coworker.。
He's like, you know, I have to work。
next to Philip Choi every day.。
You know, so like, picking up my cross。
is having to work next to Philip all the time, okay?。
But it's not that, okay?。
The cross is more than just an annoyance.。
The cross was an instrument of death.。
So picking up your cross is not just,。
it's not just, you know, annoyance you have to deal with.。
Picking up your cross means denying yourself。
to the point where we think all of our earthly passions,。
our sinful desires, our past life。
is crucified and put to death.。
Taking up your cross means not only to deny yourself,。
but it means to die to yourself.。
Bonhoeffer, in his book, "The Cost of Discipleship,"。
I recommend all of us read it, says it this way.。
When Christ calls a man or woman,。
he bids him to come and die.。
You see, if we just stopped at denying ourselves, right?。
That stuff is still sort of there,。
like lurking in the background, right?。
And the danger is there's always a risk。
of us running back to it, right?。
Because as messed up as it is,。
there's a sort of a safety that we feel。
when we hide in sin, right?。
I know it's messed up, but we feel that, you know?。
And so we can't just be denying it。
and leaving that stuff there.。
Scripture doesn't just tell us to resist sin.。
That's just the first step.。
Scripture tells us to put the sin。
in our old lives to death.。
Time and time again, it reminds us of this.。
Galatians 5:24, "Those who belong to Jesus Christ。
"have been," what?。
"Crucified," right?。
"The flesh with its passions and its desires."。
Romans 6:11, "In the same way, count yourselves," listen,。
"dead to sin, but alive to God in Christ Jesus."。
Matthew 5, Jesus himself,。
"If your right eye causes you to stumble,。
"gouge it out and," do what?。
"Throw it away.。
"If your right hand causes you to stumble,。
"cut it off and throw it away."。
2 Corinthians 5, "So then, if anyone in Christ,。
"he is a new creation, what is old has passed away."。
Look, what is new has come.。
You get the point?。
Without dying to ourselves, there is always the risk。
of going back and doing things according to our own flesh,。
to our own agenda.。
We're gonna want to say no when God says yes.。
We're going to want to stop when God says go.。
We're gonna say I'm not ready when God says,。
"I need you to do this for me."。
And the attachments we have to the things of this world。
will try and tie us down and stop us。
from living a life with Jesus.。
See, the point is not for Jesus to give you。
a better version of your life now.。
What Jesus is offering when we come and follow him。
is a brand new life, a whole new life.。
And in order for you to have a new life,。
your old life has to die.。
This is why we call coming to Christ to be born again.。
This is why the Bible tells us that we are buried within。
by baptism into what?。
Death, in order that just as Christ was risen from the dead。
for the glory of the Father,。
we too might walk in newness of life, Romans 6, 4.。
Does your heart resonate with this, brothers and sisters?。
Is your desire to know Jesus, even in his death,。
and going to the cross your number one priority in life?。
Are you willing not only to deny,。
but to die and throw away your old life。
so that you may know and follow Jesus?。
And I know I'm repeating myself,。
and it's beginning to sound a bit radical and extreme.。
And even as I was preparing for this,。
I was, "Allison, you know, it's not that serious.。
"You gotta chill with this stuff."。
But it's actually not that radical.。
This is the norm.。
This is what Jesus expects for us as followers of him.。
Can we be like Paul and proclaim,。
"I resolve to know nothing。
"except Jesus Christ and him crucified."。
Without dying to our old life,。
we will never be able to embrace the new life offered to us,。
a life where Jesus now says, "Come and follow me."。
This now becomes our only purpose in life, to follow Jesus.。
Not chasing whatever feels good, not satisfying our flesh,。
but our aim after old life has been crucified.。
We're not left aimless and pointless。
wandering around in this world.。
Once our old life has been crucified,。
we can wholeheartedly, single-mindedly。
live our new life of following Jesus.。
This is what discipleship means.。
This is what we mean when we talk。
about growing big people here at the Vine,。
people who have denied their old lives to the point of death。
so that they can follow Jesus with nothing holding them back.。
This is gonna be the cost, church.。
This is the reaction, this is the decision。
that Jesus is seeking when he calls us to follow him.。
And if we really want to experience。
his forgiveness over our lives,。
then this is what's required of us,。
to deny yourself, to pick up your cross, and to follow him.。
So let me ask this again.。
Do we really want to do this?。
Do we want to follow Jesus?。
Because there is a cost.。
There are things that are gonna have to change in our lives.。
A life with Jesus will mean discipline.。
It is gonna mean denying yourself to the point of death,。
putting your old sin to life, putting your old life to death.。
It might mean suffering for the Lord.。
It might mean the risk of persecution.。
It might mean being misunderstood by people around you.。
It might mean being whole, it will mean。
being wholeheartedly obedient to him and him alone.。
It's going to mean walking by faith and not by sight.。
It's going to mean loving your neighbors。
as you've loved yourself.。
It's going to mean loving your enemies even.。
It's going to mean standing up for justice.。
It's gonna mean loving those others have deemed as sinners.。
It's gonna require sacrificial giving.。
It means looking after the widows and the orphans.。
It means going down the narrow, more difficult road.。
It means dropping everything as the disciples did。
at the sound of his voice.。
It's gonna mean putting him above all else.。
It's gonna mean meditating and spending time。
marinating in God's word.。
It's gonna mean thinking about things that are pure,。
things that are noble, things that are true.。
It means committing yourself to the church,。
the body of Christ, serving him in this way.。
It's gonna mean forgiving others as Jesus has forgiven you.。
It's gonna mean loving your wife。
as Christ has loved the church.。
It's gonna mean praying for your husband daily.。
It's gonna mean teaching your children。
in the way that they should go.。
It comes at a great sacrifice to us,。
a great cost to us, it has to.。
But it will also mean this.。
It means freedom from sin and darkness.。
It means joy, true joy in your life.。
It's gonna mean being surrounded by a community。
that truly loves you.。
It's going to mean a life full of the power。
of the Holy Spirit.。
It's gonna mean seeing miracles, signs and wonders,。
things that only God can do.。
It means being filled with wonder and worship.。
Every time you look up at the night sky,。
you can think to yourself, what an amazing God I serve.。
Look at the God who made the universe。
and he loves me as well.。
It's going to mean a life full of purpose and direction.。
It's going to mean a life that's not governed by fear,。
but directed by God's love.。
It will mean a life that's free from shame and guilt.。
It's going to mean enjoying God's blessings。
whenever he chooses to bless us with those.。
It's gonna mean whole, healthy families and societies.。
It's going to mean discovering the true purpose。
of what your life is on this earth.。
It means Jesus becoming the one。
and only significance for your life.。
And he is the only thing that is worth living for.。
But this is a choice.。
Like I said at the beginning, it's a question of if.。
Which is why Jesus also gives us。
some very clear consequences of what life might turn out like。
if we don't choose to follow him.。
He says this, "For whoever would save his life will lose it.。
"But whoever loses his life for my sake will find it."。
What Jesus is trying to say is this.。
The more you try to control your own life,。
the more you try to live life on your own terms,。
the more you refuse to deal with the sin。
and darkness that's in your life,。
the more you hold on to vengeance and retribution,。
the more you try to save yourself and be your own savior,。
you will lose your life.。
And I know, I was trying to come up。
with a cute illustration for this.。
At the end of the day, I don't think there is one.。
It's one of those things you have to say,。
if you know, you know.。
Because in the wisdom of the world,。
this doesn't make sense.。
In the way the world thinks, this doesn't make sense.。
The world tells us, look after yourself first,。
take control of your life, you know,。
have your life plans and goals,。
and all those things are good, right?。
And I'm not dogging on life plans。
and all those kind of things.。
Please don't hear me wrong, right?。
This isn't a call into self-abuse.。
It's not about that.。
But what we're saying is this.。
When Jesus calls someone into the journey of discipleship,。
it's not just suffering for the sake of suffering.。
It's not just following for the sake of following.。
But he calls us because he says,。
no one can have two masters, right?。
You'll either love one or hate the other.。
He calls us to love the Lord our God。
with all our heart, mind, soul, and strength.。
And we'll never be able to do this。
if we're still holding on to our own vision for our lives.。
And yes, I know, like I said, it doesn't make sense,。
but that is actually how it's supposed to be.。
Don't be so foolish to be deceived。
by this world's way of thinking。
that the world's way of doing things。
is the right way of doing things.。
Scripture reminds us, and it's counterintuitive,。
it's countercultural.。
It's foolishness from the world's perspective.。
But the foolishness of God is wiser than human,。
and it's the foolishness of human wisdom.。
And if it doesn't make sense to you now,。
this will only make sense to you。
when your hearts and minds have been made new.。
When Jesus gives you that new mind。
and that new life that he's promised you。
once you decide to deny yourself,。
pick up his cross, and follow him.。
And once you receive this new life,。
you see the freedom and the fruit and the purpose。
wholeheartedly devoted to Jesus.。
Jesus tells us this way in Matthew chapter 13.。
Following Jesus is like discovering treasure。
that's hidden in a field.。
When a man found it, he hid it again,。
then in his joy went and sold, gave up everything he had。
and bought the field so that he could have the treasure.。
Again, the kingdom of heaven, following Jesus。
is like a merchant looking for fine pearls.。
When he found one of great value,。
he went away, sold everything he had, and bought that pearl.。
If you want to know purpose in life,。
if you want to know why God has put you on this earth,。
the only way to find out is to give him。
everything you've got.。
Following him will cost you everything, church.。
That is true.。
There are no half measures in this journey.。
It's sink or swim.。
But when you give everything you've got to Jesus,。
he promises to give us life。
and life in the fullest in return.。
So how does this relate back to forgiveness?。
See, this is why forgiveness is important for us。
as followers of Jesus.。
This is because it can't just be the get out of jail。
free card that we need to use whenever we mess up.。
Because forgiveness isn't about cheap grace.。
Forgiveness is about God using it as a way。
to guide and shape and mold us,。
to help us to die to ourselves in order to follow him.。
He knows that along the way it's gonna be difficult.。
He knows that along the way that we're gonna stumble。
and fall, we're gonna sin, we're gonna mess up.。
He knows all that stuff.。
But this is why he gave us his forgiveness.。
Not to use as a way to abuse it,。
but to use as a way for him to encourage us,。
to help us along in this journey,。
to say, hey, it's okay, child.。
That's what Jesus is saying.。
Every time we met, I see you, I love you.。
Now let's pick yourself back up.。
I forgive you.。
Keep going.。
Keep walking towards me.。
Keep coming towards me.。
My forgiveness will always be there for you。
if you're willing to take this journey with me.。
Without forgiveness, our journey to be more like Jesus。
would not be possible.。
But with forgiveness, it becomes this beautiful,。
amazing thing that we can embrace and hold,。
knowing that even if we mess up along the way,。
God's grace is there to catch us。
and to encourage us on this journey。
towards discipleship with him.。
So you see this church, all this, right?。
All these prayers we have about forgiveness.。
I don't see it as just about forgiveness.。
I see these prayers, I see these things。
are being written out as a hard cry,。
not to be better at forgiving, but to be more like Jesus.。
Right, we want to deal with these things.。
We want to have forgiveness in our lives.。
We want to be rid of the darkness and the sin。
and the chains that hold us back,。
all these things that we've been holding us.。
We want to give them to the Lord to be free of them。
so that we can be a church that wholeheartedly follows him.。
So let's not cheapen forgiveness, church.。
In order for Jesus to forgive us, it cost him his life.。
So it's only fitting that if we want to live。
in his grace and forgiveness,。
if we want to know the true meaning of our lives,。
then we have to give that to him as well.。
This is the kind of people he's looking for.。
So don't wait.。
This is my last encouragement for you.。
Today, if you've been reminded that Jesus asked you。
to follow him with all your life, make that decision now.。
Do it now.。
'Cause the last danger is we might be sitting here。
thinking, oh, you know, it's okay.。
I have time, right?。
There's still things I want to do.。
There's still goals in life I haven't achieved.。
You know, there's still certain things I want to experience。
before giving my life to Jesus.。
And so let me go and do those things first.。
And then I might come and think about following Jesus.。
I urge you, church, there is no time to delay.。
Do not delay.。
Don't be like that foolish person in the parable。
who says to themselves, you know,。
I'm gonna take life easy, eat, drink, and be merry,。
just live my life until the right time。
comes to respond to Jesus.。
Only for God to respond to him, you fool.。
This very night, your life will be demanded from you.。
I don't say that to scare us or to try and guilt you。
or to try and manipulate your thinking,。
but this is the truth.。
We don't know how long we have life on this earth.。
Jesus is coming back or your life could be over。
at any moment.。
So today, right now, in this moment,。
this is the time to make your decision,。
to decide to follow him,。
to decide that you're done with your old life,。
to pick up that cross and discover。
that only through Jesus will you ever discover。
the amazing journey, the amazing fullness of life。
that he has promised to you.。
It's going to take pain, it's going to take sacrifice,。
it's going to take you following him。
with everything you've got.。
Until we see Jesus face to face,。
this is the road that we've been called to follow.。
So church, I ask you, will we be that generation?。
Can we be that body of Christ who takes Jesus seriously。
at his word to live for him and him alone?。
Will we cherish forgiveness so much。
that we use it, that we let it shape us。
and guide us and mold us, not to do whatever we want,。
but into becoming more like our savior?。
If you would close your eyes, church,。
I wonder if you would just reflect。
and think about the challenge。
the Lord has set before us today.。
Yeah, maybe we're in this room。
and there are chains that have been holding us。
and there is sin in our life。
that we haven't dealt with yet.。
(soft music)。
And God's forgiveness is on offer, it is.。
It's there for you today.。
But he wants to help you deal with that,。
not to go back to it, but to be free from it.。
And so Lord, for anyone in that space,。
Lord, I pray for freedom from sin.。
I pray that as we bring these things before you,。
the strongholds, the chains that were once holding us,。
Lord, would be released, would be broken,。
that the enemy would flee。
so that we can take the first step forward.。
Or maybe even just the first glance,。
the first look at you, to look towards you for direction,。
for help, for new life.。
And maybe some of us in this room。
have made that decision to follow you.。
And in our heart, in our minds,。
we've said, yes, this is what we want to do.。
But it is really hard.。
I know it's hard to put you above everything else.。
And perhaps we've been distracted。
and we've let things of this world entice us。
and to draw us and to distract us into thinking,。
oh, that's my purpose, that's my goal, that's my truth.。
Lord, I pray that you would help us see our greater purpose.。
That you would meet us in those places。
and that we would offer that over to you。
and allow you to just take our life wherever you wanted to.。
Even it means letting go of some of those things。
or all of those things, we're willing to say,。
Lord, I am willing because I want to follow you more.。
For some of us, maybe we're out of luck.。
For some of us, maybe we're our lives right now,。
you would say, it's good actually, dude.。
Like, everything's set for once maybe。
and it's, you know, I like the way I'm living.。
I'm comfortable.。
Maybe the challenge for you today is。
for God to speak to you and say, yeah, I see that.。
But what the Lord promises us is so much more。
than just comfort and good.。
What the Lord promises us in the life with him。
is fullness of joy,。
is purpose, and that it could even be better。
than the thing that you think is good right now.。
I guarantee you, Jesus is 10 million gazillion times。
better than that.。
If only you would pick up your cross,。
deny yourself and truly follow him,。
you would discover how amazing life with Jesus is。
compared to whatever it is that we're chasing right now.。
And so, Jesus, we just lay ourselves bare before you.。
And finally, I just thank you。
that we don't do this in our own power.。
That we have the Holy Spirit guiding us, walking with us,。
empowering us, strengthening us every single step of the way.。
We are not alone in this journey.。
Holy Spirit goes with us.。
Your brothers and sisters along the journey with you。
go with you to encourage you.。
And so, Jesus, help us in this.。
I pray that we may deny ourselves,。
pick up our cross and live lives that are wholeheartedly。
and only dedicated to you and you alone.。
This is our prayer, Lord, in Jesus' name.。
Lord, in Jesus' name.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
you。
