"And Lord, haste the day when my faithful become sight and the Lord shall return for。
my soul."。
Those beautiful words written by Horatio Spafford in 1876 really echoes so much of what the。
Advent season is all about.。
This idea of longing for the return of Christ and when he comes back, knowing that our faith。
is fully awake, that our faith, as he so beautifully writes, becomes sight.。
As we started our Advent series last week, I told you about the reality that Advent is。
the celebration of two important realities.。
It is, of course, the celebration of the arrival of Jesus as a child on the Christmas day,。
that first Advent that we celebrate, but it's also the idea of this longing for the return。
of Christ at the end of all things.。
He came, yes, as a child, but we long for him to return again as an all-conquering king.。
And Advent is the celebration of the reality that we live in the in-between time from the。
arrival of Christ to the return of Christ.。
And those two things are like bookends around the redemptive story of Jesus.。
And because they're bookends, we have the privilege now to live on behalf today of those。
two realities.。
Scholars call the time that we live in now the now, but not yet.。
We saw this last week.。
We live now.。
Christ has come in that first Advent.。
He has inaugurated his kingdom.。
He has in his life, death, and resurrection gone to the cross, paid the price for our。
sins, changed how we see ourselves in the world back into reconciled relationship with。
him, that he's ascended from the cross into the heavens, brought his spirit to fill us。
today.。
We live in the now, but we also live in this idea of the not yet, that we're longing for。
Christ to return again into the world, because when he does, all of creation will be made。
new.。
And we know that despite the reality of the importance of what Christ has done in his。
Advent, his first Advent, there's still the impact of sin on us.。
There's still the reality of sin in our world.。
And we long for Christ to return at the end of all things as described in Revelation 21。
and 22, when the world will finally be as God has always called it to be.。
We saw last week that the apostle Paul speaks about this now, but not yet Advent time as。
like seeing through a mirror darkly, like things are not quite perfect yet, that we。
see in part and we know in part in this time, but there's a time coming where we will see。
perfectly, we will know perfectly.。
I love how honest the apostle Paul is with his church.。
He's like in this Advent time of the now, but not yet, we don't know everything, that。
there are gaps literally in our lives, in our experiences.。
And we wish, don't we, that we had all the answers.。
We wish that we did know everything right now, but in this now, but not yet, we don't.。
There is a time coming that when perfection arrives, we will suddenly understand it all.。
But right now we live in the gaps.。
And we talked last week about how challenging it is to sometimes live in those gaps, to。
not have the answers for everything, to not understand why there is so much war, brokenness,。
why there is so much evil still around, why we don't always have the big questions that。
are answered in our lives on a regular basis.。
And we cry out and we wonder why this is the case.。
There are gaps, Paul says.。
But then he says this beautiful thing right at the end.。
He says, but God hasn't left us alone in the gaps.。
He said in this now, but not yet time where we're longing for the return of Christ, three。
things remain, faith, hope, love.。
And this is Paul's way of saying these three things are the things that help us in those。
gap moments of life.。
Because when we're in the gaps, we humans, we don't like the gaps.。
We try to fill the gaps with ourselves.。
We try to come up with the answers.。
We strive to try to sort it all out.。
And the apostle Paul is saying, no, no, no, the answers are not found in ourselves.。
We do not know everything, but there is a God who knows it all.。
And he's given us three things to help navigate those times in our lives where we don't have。
the answers, faith, hope, and love.。
These are the things that elevate us, if you will, as humans out of those gaps in life。
and bring us towards the worship of the one who does know it all.。
So this week and the next two, we're going to take one of these themes of faith, hope,。
and love.。
And today we're talking about faith.。
Now there's a lot of things I could say about faith, but I only have one message on it.。
So I'm going to zero down to the things that I think are most critical for us in the now,。
but not yet advent time that we're in.。
The first thing you need to understand about faith is that the way that we speak about。
faith in the modern church is actually quite different to how faith was spoken and written。
about in the early church, in the first century church.。
Here in the modern day church, when we talk about faith, so often what we think about。
is belief.。
In fact, when we talk about faith, we think about some sort of doctrinal statements or。
some doctrinal beliefs that help us to understand what it is that we now live on behalf of.。
So if you were to say to someone, "I have faith in Jesus," what you're really saying。
is "I believe in the story that Christ came to this world as a child on Christmas in that。
original advent, that he did inaugurate that kingdom, that he did go to the cross and pay。
the price for my sins, that he did raise from the dead three days later, and I believe all。
of that.。
When I tell you that Jesus is Lord in my life, my faith, if you will, is based on this idea。
of a set of beliefs and that I believe that thing.。
This is why we actually say that our Christian is a Christian faith.。
It's a Christian set of beliefs that we believe, and if you align to those beliefs, you then。
take on the name that I'm a Christian.。
Are you following this?。
This is how we think about it in the modern church, but that is so far removed from how。
they thought about it in the first church, because in the first church, faith was not。
just about belief.。
More importantly for them, it was also about action.。
It was about how we now live on behalf of what it is that we now believe.。
And the reason why this was so important in the first century is because in Greco-Roman。
culture and society, they had a pantheon of gods, and they believed in a lot of different。
gods, but that didn't mean they worshipped all of those gods.。
So if you were to talk to a first century Roman, if you're a Christian in the first。
century, and you was to talk to them about belief, and you were to say, "We want you。
to believe in Jesus," a Roman would probably go, "Sure, I'm happy to believe in Jesus.。
I'm happy to add Jesus into the pantheon of all the gods that I believe in.。
Believing in him doesn't mean I have to worship him."。
And so the early church realized very early on that if they're going to talk about faith。
in Jesus, they needed to find a word that would actually help people to understand that。
this is not just about a belief system, that if you believe in this Jesus, everything changes。
for you.。
That in fact, to believe in this Jesus means that you have to get rid of all of the other。
gods in the pantheon, and only believe in this one God, that you're to sacrifice your。
whole life, let go of everything, and commit your whole self to following just the one。
God.。
That's the core of the gospel.。
And so when the early church was saying, "How do we find a Greek word that will help the。
Romans to understand what it is to give up your whole life to follow after Jesus?"。
They chose this word called "Pistis."。
And "Pistis" means literally this.。
It means trust, trustworthiness, relational trust, but relational trust at such a deep。
degree that it's like, "I give everything I am to over in my life to this person."。
So this phrase "Pistis" was used in common Greek language to talk about a sacrificial。
trust towards one another.。
And so when the early church was trying to help people around them understand what a。
faith in Jesus might look like, they spoke about "Pistis," which interestingly is not。
how we think about faith today, just belief.。
This is about trust and commitment.。
And what's important for you to understand is that the English version of the Bible,。
when it translates this word "Pistis," guess which word it translates it to?。
You guessed it, faith.。
So anytime you read about the word faith in the New Testament, it's translating out。
of "Pistis."。
It's not talking about some doctrinal statement of faith that we use today in that context.。
It's actually talking about trust.。
I trust the Lord with everything.。
You follow this?。
It's about the totality of who we are.。
So maybe one helpful way when you're reading the New Testament and you see the word faith,。
just kind of put in there, trust completely or fully trust or open my whole life to this。
thing.。
This is like a whole life sacrifice commitment to this God.。
That is "Pistis."。
That is faith.。
You're following this so far?。
Now the reason why this is all important is because when you begin to see the Bible in。
the New Testament, them speaking about faith, you get really challenged when it's about。
the totality of your life rather than just a belief set in your mind.。
This is totally life transformative to have faith in Jesus.。
There are many examples that I could take you to in the scriptures on this, but I want。
to situate this in perhaps the most famous, the most central to this idea of faith in。
relation to this now but not yet advent kind of time that we live in today.。
And this is in Hebrews chapter 11.。
Let me read you the first six verses.。
Listen to this.。
"Now faith is confidence in what we hope for and being assured about what we do not。
see.。
This is what the ancients were commended for.。
For by faith we understand that the universe was formed at God's command so that what is。
seen was not made out of what was visible.。
By faith Abel offered God a better sacrifice than Cain did.。
By faith he was commanded as a righteous man when God spoke of his offerings.。
And by faith he still speaks even though he is dead.。
By faith Enoch was taken out from this life so that he did not even experience death.。
He could not be found because God had taken him away.。
For before he was taken, he was commended as one who," notice this, "pleased God.。
And without faith it is impossible to please God."。
Let me just stop there.。
Without faith, not saying without a set of beliefs, saying without a total, complete,。
utter, give my life in trust fully over to this God, without that it is impossible to。
please God.。
That's some heavy stuff.。
I don't know if you've ever stopped for a moment and actually thought about that.。
I want to start here at the end and then I want to work back to the beginning because。
to get a grasp of what the writer is meaning here by without faith it's impossible to please。
God.。
All of that actually then helps us to interpret the first part of this passage.。
So we're going to start at the end.。
We're going to work way back to the beginning.。
I want you to sit with this for a second.。
Without faith it is impossible to please God.。
I don't know if you've ever thought of it this way, but I think that's a very unfair。
obligation on humans.。
Anyone feel that way?。
Like have you ever tried to please God?。
I have many times.。
And when we try to please God, what do we do?。
We think, okay, I need to live a better life.。
I need to live a little bit more pure.。
I need to offer my life in a different way or I need to make sure that I'm adhering and。
not sinning and that I'm repenting a lot.。
And we do all this activity, don't we?。
In order to try to think that we're pleasing God, that we're getting God on our side.。
And the crazy thing is you need to realize that if we do all of those things without。
faith, he's not pleased.。
So you can do so much activity to try to win God's favor, to try to get his blessing on。
your side, even Christian activity.。
But if there's no trust, if there's no fullness of giving my life over to this thing, then。
you do not please God.。
And if you do not please God, here's the crazy thing.。
You are not human.。
Let me unpack that for a sec.。
Does not say in this passage, if you're good enough, you please God.。
Does not say in this passage, if you're successful, you please God.。
What it says is if you have faith, you please him.。
Ever thought about it this way, dogs do not have to live by faith.。
Dogs are not called to live by faith.。
Squirrels are not called to live by faith.。
Trees are not called to live by faith.。
See, a dog gives pleasure to God just simply by existing, by being a dog.。
Same for a tree, same for a squirrel, same for anything in the animal kingdom.。
The only thing that makes us human, that separates us from all the other animals, because the。
other animals are not called to live by faith, but we are, is this idea of faith.。
I don't know if you've ever thought of it that way, but faith, the exercise of our trust。
in God is the one activity we do that actually makes us truly human.。
And because it makes us truly human, when we exercise faith, we're actually coming into。
the way in which we were created to be.。
And when we live as humans without faith, we are no better than the animals.。
Get that one in your head for a moment.。
Can you imagine what that feels like?。
We think that having faith makes us super human, don't we as Christians?。
Because we talk about all the time about amazing Christians that have such great faith.。
And if only I could have faith like those Christians, those are super Christians.。
If only I could be like Andrew, he's a super Christian because he has such great faith.。
He's super human.。
The writer here in Hebrews is saying, faith doesn't make you super human.。
It makes you simply human.。
It makes you actually the way you were created to be in the first place.。
And if you want to separate yourself from the animal world, from everything else in。
creation, then the only way we please God is by actually beginning to trust him with。
the wholeness of our lives.。
And when we do that, we actually come into the way we were designed to be.。
See, human beings were designed to live by faith.。
And when you live without faith, you basically end up not living in the way that you were。
designed to be.。
And that strips so much away from the potential that you have as a human being.。
The call of this passage is not to some super human moment of life.。
The call of this passage is just to be the way you were created to be.。
It's interesting, isn't it, to think that any human being who lives without faith is。
living at a sub human level.。
And when we're in this now but not yet time between the inauguration of Christ and the。
coming again, we have this opportunity to be human.。
This opportunity to cry out and say, "I want to live my life with faith."。
And so the question we should ask ourselves as we sit with this crazy idea that it's impossible。
without faith to please God, we should ask ourselves, "What then does faith look like?。
What does it mean for me to truly be human?。
What does it mean for me to live as my potential of a human being?。
How does that actually look?"。
Well, the author goes back to the beginning and he says, "You want to know what it looks。
like?。
Here it is.。
Now, faith is the confidence in what you hope for."。
Let's just stop there for a moment.。
I don't know about you, but this doesn't work for me.。
This one doesn't work for me.。
Like faith is the confidence in what we hope for.。
Hope, I don't know about you, hope seems so wishy-washy, doesn't it?。
Hope seems so out there, so ethereal, so intangible, so future, not present, not right now.。
I don't know about you, but I actually think the opposite of this passage is true.。
That where we usually find our confidence is in what we have.。
The Bible is telling us here, our confidence, faith is defined by a confidence in what we。
hope for.。
But if we're honest with ourselves, we live pretty much every single day with confidence。
in what we have.。
We find our confidence, our assurance in what we can tangibly feel, what we can tangibly。
see, what we can bring into our life and experience.。
That's where we find our confidence, is it not?。
We have confidence in our bank accounts, confidence in the strength of our jobs, confidence in。
the roof over our heads, confidence in the community around us, confidence in our own。
skills and our strengths and our abilities.。
That's where we seem to find most of our confidence.。
And the writer here is saying, if your confidence is found in yourself and is not found in what。
you hope for, which is not currently yours, not currently experienced, not currently tangible。
to you, but if it's confidence here, not confidence there, he's basically saying you're trapped.。
You're trapped in the now and the past.。
Because think about this, there's such a difference between what we have and what we hope for.。
What we have is possessions.。
What we hope for is expectation.。
What we have right now is part of the past and the present.。
What we hope for is the future or to put it in the language of this series, what we have。
is now, but what we hope for is not yet.。
The author here is saying, if you have faith, you are someone who finds your confidence,。
not in these things that you have right now.。
Your confidence instead stretches forward to the things you do not have.。
The belief that in Revelation 21 and 20, there's this incredible picture of the end of all。
things.。
And you're believing that the promises of God can come into your life today.。
That's where your confidence is found.。
That's a human being, the passage is telling us.。
And yet so often we find ourselves stuck on the first side of the equation.。
I only can find confidence in what I have.。
And when that takes place, we're living only in the past and the present.。
We're not living in the future.。
And when you get trapped in only the past and the present, you end up becoming what。
Paul was talking about in that passage last week.。
You're just in the now.。
And there's going to be gaps and it's going to be difficult.。
And you're going to wear yourself out.。
This is why human beings are called to faith when they're in the gaps.。
And faith is not to double down on the stuff that we have right now.。
Faith is to long to reach forward, to expect in hope that better things are coming tomorrow.。
It is shifting from the past and the present towards this future that we have.。
Human beings are not supposed to be ones that are stuck in the past.。
Human beings should be the ones that are creating the future.。
That's faith.。
That's the thing that lifts us out of those gaps and stretches us outwards.。
And when we begin to live on behalf of what we hope for, what we hope for in our marriages。
and in our families and in our communities and in our businesses, not what we're currently。
having now, but what we long to hope for in the future.。
When we begin to live that way, we begin to act differently, think differently, spend。
differently, do all the things that we are supposed to do today in a different way on。
behalf of that story rather than the broken one we currently see now.。
You following me?。
See, the message of Advent is that true peace is found not in what you have, but what you。
hope for.。
And if you do not have confidence in what you hope for, you will end up holding on way。
too tightly to what you currently have.。
And that's going to root you right here and now and is not going to move you into all。
the things that Christ has on his heart for you.。
And it's really important that we wrestle with this because this isn't comfortable for。
us.。
Because we think that actually, surely the opposite of this should be true.。
We begin to think that, hang on a sec, God's given us all this stuff and surely that's。
where my confidence should come from.。
And God's saying, no, no, no, I want you to be confident in the things that you don't。
have.。
I want you to look forward and hope for those things that you don't have because those things。
are the things that are going to define you more today.。
And we realize that actually this is our story usually rather than that.。
And here's the crazy thing.。
When you are more confident about what you have than what you hope for, you are actually。
not living a life of faith.。
You're living a life of fate.。
Let me unpack this one for you, Sveta Tek.。
You're living actually a life of fate, not faith.。
Because fate is based on everything around me, what it's done, what it's doing, all the。
ways in which it works, all of that begins to determine how I think and act.。
Fate is the idea that everything is already predetermined, already planned out.。
There's no kind of thing nebulous over here.。
It's all present right now.。
And it all is playing out in a certain way in my life.。
And I'm living in the confidence of all of that.。
That's fateful thinking, not faithful thinking.。
And this is really important because so many Christians think they're living a life of。
faith when they're actually living a life of fate.。
Oh, I'm going to preach on that one.。
So many Christians think they're being faithful when their confidence is in their bank account.。
So many Christians think they're being faithful when their confidence is in their own skill。
sets and who they are.。
So many Christians think they're being faithful when they're actually being faithful because。
faith is the confidence in what we do not yet have.。
And if it's confidence in moving forward into what we do not have, and we're holding on。
to what we have as the place of our assurance and faith, that's fate, not faith.。
And that's a very dangerous place to be.。
Some of you are sticking with a job that you hate because you have more faith in what you。
have than what you hope for.。
Some of you are stuck in a relationship that you know is not healthy for you because you。
have more faith in what you have than what you hope for.。
Don't use what you have today as an excuse to hold you back what you hope for.。
Don't use that as an excuse to hold you back from the way in which you were created to。
be from your humanity.。
Your humanity is not to find trust in the fate things of life.。
Your humanity is to be released to the future.。
To lean forward and say, that is what's going to define me.。
My trust when I'm in the gap is in a God who comes and meets me in that gap.。
Oh, now faith is the confidence in what we hope for.。
I'm going to unpack that a little bit more next week when we talk about hope.。
Then notice what he says in the second half of the verse.。
He says, "And the assurance of what we do not see."。
All right, this one's not going to work for me either.。
And the assurance of what we do not see, which again, if you think about it for a sec, is。
a crazy thing to say.。
Because every single one of us, we basically find our assurance in what we currently see.。
We define our whole lives by what it is that we see.。
Because again, that's tangible.。
We can see it.。
We can experience it.。
What we do not see is not what we are assured of.。
That again, feels nebulous out there.。
We want to root ourselves in what we see.。
In fact, I would put it this way, for human beings so often, the actual definition of。
success is what you can see in my life.。
This my friends is what social media is all about.。
This is what Instagram's about.。
Instagram is a ... and I love it.。
I'm on Instagram.。
You can follow me by the way.。
No, just kidding.。
But Instagram is all about putting up photos and videos that will help you to see what's。
happening in my life.。
And I'm projecting a vision of what I want you to see.。
Are you with me?。
So I want you to define your thinking about my success by the what I stuff out there.。
And you see it and you go, "Oh, I see that.。
Therefore that person must be this."。
We can judge that way.。
We can celebrate celebrities, whatever that way.。
What we see becomes what we are trusting, what we are assured of.。
And the writer of the Hebrew says, "If you do that, you are still an animal."。
Because animals live by their senses, by what they see.。
And if you're a human being and you are assured only by what you see, you are no better than。
an animal.。
You're not being a human.。
Humans have faith and faith pleases God.。
And faith is not just confidence in what I hope for, but it's also the assurance of what。
I yet right now do not see.。
In other words, what they're saying is faith changes how you see.。
Because so often we look out on this world, and if you're anything like me, you see brokenness.。
You see sin and death and injustice and decay.。
You see people being mistreated.。
You see the realities of evil.。
You see betrayal.。
And when you see all of this, it's so easy to begin to think that that is the wholeness。
of reality.。
Now, this world is terrible and hard and broken and bad.。
And I just wish I could bungee jump out of here into heaven when everything will be fine.。
But no, I've got to live in this terrible, horrible, "Oh, I don't want to get dirtied。
by this terrible world that I see."。
And God's saying, "Have eyes of faith."。
Because yes, if you're an animal and all you ever see is what is exactly around you, you're。
going to probably live a pretty depressed life.。
But if you can actually begin to raise the eyes of faith, not just a physical eyes in。
which you see, but eyes of faith that enable you to see the thing that it is not as if。
it already was, then you're living as a human being.。
Then you're beginning to live out the very call of what it is to have faith.。
This is why when you're in the gaps, you're not lost.。
But faith God has given us to rise us up and say, "Although I see decay right now, I'm。
not going to trust what I only see with my physical eyes because I believe there's a。
spiritual realm behind the physical and there's stuff happening that I don't physically see.。
But with eyes of faith, I see."。
Could you imagine a church filled with people who look at a drug addict and they see the。
decay of the chemical that is ravaging the addiction in that person's life.。
And they're not ignoring the realities of what they see in the physical.。
They see the brokenness of addiction in that man.。
But could you imagine seeing then also what they might look like when they were revived。
and restored and healthy again, because they've come in a relationship with Christ and they've。
been able to deal with the addiction that's in their lives.。
And when you look at them today, you might only see a drug addict.。
What would it look like if you saw them today as a drug addict and said, "I also see your。
future and I'm assured of the things I do not currently see."。
Imagine if you had a depressed friend who's struggling with a deep mental health issue。
and they were once a certain way and you loved hanging out with them.。
But now hanging out with them is hard and tough and you actually don't want to hang。
out with them and you're not sending the phone calls anymore and you're not making the message.。
You kind of separated yourself because every time you see them it hurts and it's depressing。
for yourself.。
And what if you saw that person, not with eyes that see the reality of what is now,。
again, not ignoring what is happening, but then seeing it beyond that and saying, "Yeah,。
I see the pain that they're going through and the mental health challenge that they're。
going through, but I also see with the right support, with the right therapy, with the。
right help, I can see them flourishing again.。
And I remember what I had in the past, but I can see an even greater, brighter future。
for this person."。
Could you imagine a church that actually was human, filled with people who had faith,。
who could see what the world doesn't see?。
If you have a church like that, that church wants to change the world around them.。
Because God has peeled back that cover of Revelation 21 and 22 and said, "The movie。
ends this way."。
And we go, "All right, but the only way I'm going to work on behalf of that vision, because。
I'm so surrounded by this current one, is if I realize that I need to have hope in what。
is not yet here, I need to be able to see what I cannot currently see.。
That is the only way that I can believe that that thing can happen now and that I can live。
on behalf of that vision today.。
I need faith."。
Now this kind of faith and the lack of it is what dominates the original Christmas story.。
It's what dominates that story completely.。
You have Zachariah, who didn't have this kind of faith.。
Zachariah, who actually only hoped in what he had and only saw what he currently could。
see.。
So when Gabriel shows up as this angel and says, "Your wife's going to be pregnant,"。
he only believed in what he had, which was old age himself, old age for his wife.。
And he only could see what he's seen all his life, which was barrenness after barrenness。
after barrenness.。
And he responds by saying, "That's not going to happen."。
And Gabriel judges, God judges him.。
And yet when Elizabeth hears this news, she has different experience.。
She has different faith.。
And despite the fact that she only has what she has, despite the fact that she's had the。
same experiences that Zachariah has experienced, she actually responds, "I know that the Lord。
is pleased with me.。
And I believe that I am going to look forward in confidence with the hope of what I do not。
have.。
And I'm going to see with eyes that are different from what I'm currently seeing in my life."。
And Mary, when Gabriel shows up to Mary, Mary, an unmarried, told that she's going to be。
pregnant as a teenager.。
The shame that that was going to bring on her family, if she had operated out of what。
she had, if her vision was all about what she could currently see, she would run a mile。
in the other direction.。
Instead, she so profoundly turns to God in this little faith that she has in her to believe。
that the future could be better than the now.。
She says these words, she says, "May it be done to me just as you have commanded."。
That's faith.。
Joseph, who decides in a dream, God shows him to, "Hey, stick around, marry her, flourish。
as a family," when he could have gone.。
The shepherds who were willing to give up all of their flock to go and visit Jesus,。
even though they were leaving their livelihood behind, if they only believed in what they。
had, if they only saw what they could see, they would have stayed with their sheep.。
They leave them in faith and go and visit the baby Jesus.。
You can go throughout the whole of the Christmas story, and it's this crying story of saying,。
"Have faith."。
And look what these people do when they have faith.。
They're not super humans.。
They're simply human.。
But when you live as you have always been designed and created to be, the world changes.。
That's Christmas.。
That's Advent.。
And us who live in the now but not yet, we are called to faith.。
The confidence of what we hope for, the assurance about what we do not currently see.。
And when we live like that, He is pleased.。
So this week, as you dive into faith for yourself a little bit more personally, here's a next。
set of questions I want you to wrestle with this week.。
Hopefully last week when I asked you to do this, you actually did the exercise during。
the week.。
And if you didn't, I still love you.。
I'm not happy, but I love you.。
I want to give you another set of questions.。
So you can take a photo of these as well.。
What usually comes to mind when you think about faith?。
And how has the teaching today helped to redefine this a bit for you?。
In this moment of your life, what does exercising faith look like for you?。
Where is God asking you personally to have confidence in what you hope for and assurance。
in what you do not see?。
Where are you currently holding on to what you have more than what you hope for?。
Where are you currently seeing only what is present than what is promised?。
I think if you were to take 30 minutes this week and sit with those questions, I think。
God would begin to speak to you quite strongly about your life right now and whether you。
are more aligned to fate or faith.。
And in that process, be willing to open your heart to the Lord and to do some work with。
Him to allow Him to begin to speak even deeper to you in this area of faith.。
See, I strongly believe this, that God does not want you to settle for the history of。
humanity.。
He wants you to fight for the future of humanity.。
And in order for us as Christians to fight for the future of humanity, we have to have。
faith.。
We have to begin to step out in ways that is beyond what we're currently seeing or。
what we're currently trusting in the here and now.。
And begin to align ourselves differently to this world so that we can rise above some。
of the things that we see.。
And when we find ourselves in the gaps, we don't fall down in the gap, but we rise up.。
And we do that through faith.。
Can I pray for you?。
Let's pray.。
Lord, we are so grateful for Advent, for this now but not yet time where we see through。
a mirror darkly, where we don't have all the answers.。
We're grateful that you haven't left us alone in that space, that your spirit is present。
here with us and its fullness within us and around us.。
And that we have this thing called faith.。
Not a set of doctrinal beliefs as important as they are, but actually a complete trust。
in you.。
So much trust in you that we actually let go of our trust of what we see right now and。
our trust in what we have right now.。
Grateful as we are for those things because they have come from you.。
But if our trust is in only what we have, if our sight is in only what we currently。
see, then we're making those our God rather than you.。
And Lord, you shift us to have a confidence in what we hope for, an assurance about what。
we do not yet see.。
You shift us out of making idols of our possessions and you help us to give our lives to expectation.。
You take us out of being trapped in the past and the present and you invite us to life。
with the future before us.。
And Father, as you pulled back that curtain and showed us what the end of the world will。
look like with every tribe and tongue and nation coming together with healing being。
there for all nations.。
Father, we want to live on behalf of that now.。
Lord, would you help us to separate ourselves from the animal world around us?。
Lord, we recognize that if we live without faith, we are no better than any of your other。
species.。
You have called and created us in your image and faith is our way that brings pleasure。
to you.。
So Lord, I want to pray for anyone in this room where this message is really hitting。
for them.。
And perhaps they recognize more fateful thinking than faithful thinking.。
Perhaps they see how they're tethered to what they have and not free to long for what they。
do not have.。
As I'm praying, I want to say this to some of you.。
Some of you are remaining in a job that you hate rather than having the courage to search。
for the one that you've always longed for because you put more trust in what you have。
than in what you hope for.。
I believe that's for some of you here in a relationship.。
You're in a relationship that you know is not healthy for you, that is not helping you,。
and yet you're remaining in that relationship because you have more trust in what you have。
than trust in what you're hoping for.。
So Lord, if there's anybody here where that resonates for them, Lord, I want to pray again。
for the liberation that comes from the work of your Spirit in our lives.。
Lord, I want to pray that we would have the courage to live with faith and that in so。
doing we would become the people that you've created us to be and we would help to see。
this world move towards that grand vision of every tribe, tongue, and nation worshipping。
you, of all of the healing on the leaves of the tree in that beautiful city that's to。
come, that we would say, "That's the vision that drives my heart.。
I want to live for the future, not the past."。
Lord, this is faith.。
I want to just encourage you just to receive that now.。
The Bible says that faith is a gift of the Spirit.。
So I want to pray for the Spirit of God just to come and stir great faith in some of you.。
Some of you, it's been about faith too long.。
It's time for you to move in faith.。
It's going to take courage.。
It's going to take a different way of thinking, but that is the way you will please the Lord.。
Lord, would you release faith in the name of Jesus over these people?。
Lord, would faith rise up?。
Faith rise up.。
Lord, give us eyes to see what we currently do not see.。
Give us hope where hope feels like it's been stolen from us.。
Revitalize our humanity.。
We pray this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says, "Amen."。
Hey, would you stand with me and we're going to just finish our time together responding。
in just a time of worship in response to what the Lord is doing here.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
