Amen. Church, would you have a seat? Thank you, worship team.。
And today we kick off our long-awaited,。
[BREATHING]。
[BREATHING]。
I remember when I first heard about the Exodus. I was maybe like six or seven, sitting in。
some Sunday school classroom, hearing about a God who does miracles. The parting of seas,。
the dropping of food from heaven, the turning rivers into blood. I mean, it was the stuff。
of legend and fairy tale, and my imagination just soared. So I kind of grew up believing。
that when God delivers His people, He does so by stepping into moments of human history。
in earth-shattering ways, that He steps into the worst moments of human suffering to change。
it in an instant. Well, I've come to learn, of course, that actually the greatest miracles。
God does is not the parting of the seas, the dropping of the food, the turning rivers red.。
The greatest miracles that God does are the small, almost imperceptible changes that happen。
inside of us. The things that on the surface appear almost inconsequential or meaningless,。
but when seen all together, create a story that actually is even greater than we could。
ever have first imagined.。
[Music]。
The Exodus story, as revealed to us in Scripture, tells us that when it comes to God delivering。
His people out of their slavery and bondage and bringing them into freedom, it's not actually。
in those breathtaking moments that God does the deliverance, it's actually in the journey。
itself. In fact, it's in the journey, in all of its highs and its beauty, as well as its。
struggles and trials and hardship, that actually the deliverance itself occurs. And this tells。
us something very interesting about the Exodus narrative, that if it teaches us anything,。
it teaches us this, that God indeed is in the business of delivering His people. That。
deliverance, however, may come in a form that we never first would have expected.。
[Music]。
In this series, I want to invite us on a journey of deliverance together, as we trace the historical。
and spiritual footsteps of Israel as they journey from their slavery to their newfound。
freedom in the Promised Land, some 400 miles away.。
[Music]。
It's a journey with many twists and turns, a journey of both joy and sorrow, of great。
hope and painful tragedy. It's a journey that will take us from these crowded streets of。
Cairo to the sacred tombs of Minya, to the shores of the River Nile, to the wide expanse。
of Sinai Desert, to mountain peaks of stunning beauty, to valleys barren and endless. It's。
a journey that will take us across the breadth of Egypt, right up through the land of Jordan,。
eventually into the heartland of Israel itself.。
And it's a journey that starts with you. You see, we all have a story of oppression. We。
all long to be free from the things that enslave us. So could it be that this ancient story。
of tragedy, slavery, and oppression, and ultimately freedom and hope and love, is actually far。
more about you and your story than you ever realize? Our God is a God who longs to bring。
people out of slavery into freedom. He's a God of hope and goodness and promise. He's。
the God, in other words, of the one thing you need most, Exodus.。
[Music]。
Ah, there we go. So, there is nothing more powerful than truly being free. And we had。
originally planned to bring this series to you in the fall of 2020, and then this little。
thing called COVID got in the way. And I've always long thought that God has a wicked,。
ironic sense of humor, because a series that is designed to teach us about the joys of。
freedom got delayed by a virus that strongly restricted our freedoms. Perhaps we are now。
in a much better place today than we were, say, three years ago, to really begin to reflect。
about what it is like to be moving from a place of restriction to a place of freedom.。
I mean, I think it would be wrong to grossly say that we've been in slavery in the last。
couple of years, but I think it would be right to say that all of us have desired a greater。
sense of personal freedom in our lives than perhaps ever before. In many ways, I think。
in the last four years or so, we've experienced maybe a microcosm of what the Exodus narrative。
is all about. We've all experienced what it's like to live under painful restrictions. We've。
all experienced how those restrictions have changed our identity, the way we think and。
the way that we feel. We've all experienced in the last few years, a longing and a desire。
for a change in the future. We've all realized that we don't have the ability to make that。
change ourselves. We all have been in need of something outside of ourselves to bring。
that change. We've all experienced that when we begun to see a glimmer of hope that there。
is a change coming, we felt that hope rise up inside of us. We've all found ourselves。
taking those tentative first steps into the new freedom, not sure whether that freedom。
is going to last and then get stuffed back into lockdown once again. We've all experienced,。
haven't we, walking into freedom again and finding ourselves in the joy of what that。
freedom has brought us and yet still carrying the baggage of the trauma of the years that。
have gone. In many ways, our journey in the last couple of years has very much been the。
journey that Israel went through in the book of Exodus. And one thing we learned from the。
book of Exodus, perhaps more than any other, is that God's timing is perfect. And so I。
think delivering the series now is the right time that God wants us to go on this journey。
together. Now, as much as COVID, I think has created us a new perspective for understanding。
the book of Exodus like never before. Today, I want to invite you actually to a much deeper。
level of a journey in Exodus that perhaps you might've thought of before. You see, the。
book of Exodus at its very core is essentially an invitation into two of humanity's greatest。
journeys. And that is the journey of discovering who is the creator of the universe and the。
journey of discovering who we are in response to that. I want to say that again, the journey。
that Exodus really invites us into is a journey of understanding who really sits at the center。
of the universe and then understanding who we are in response to that person. And really。
what the book of Exodus does right at the beginning of the biblical narrative coming。
right as it does after Genesis is invite us to ask some of the biggest questions of our。
shared human experience. Questions like, is there really a God? And if there is a God,。
does he care about our experience, our life, our suffering? And if this God does care about。
our suffering, then will he come to deliver us from that suffering? And if he does come。
and deliver us from our suffering, what is it that we learn about this God in the process。
of that deliverance? And not only what do we learn about him, but once we are finding。
ourselves in new freedom by his deliverance, then how do we come to understand how we live。
now in relation to him and importantly, in relation to one another? Those are the central。
questions of Exodus. And because of that, when we look at the book of Exodus, we're。
not just studying a book that helps us to understand something about God in the old。
Testament. What we're really looking at is a book that helps us to understand who God。
is in general. And therefore we're looking at a book that really helps us to understand。
the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus. When you think about the journey of Exodus。
and you think about those questions behind me on the screen right now, you can understand。
why this book begins to point towards Jesus Christ. And you can begin to understand why。
Jesus Christ in his ministry uses so much of the imagery of Exodus. His baptism, going。
into the desert for 40 days to be tempted by the enemy. The way he teaches his disciples。
to pray, which is essentially a prayer that takes them through the journey of Exodus.。
How he invokes the imagery of the Exodus on the cross and in his resurrection. How the。
early church captured all of that in the communion time, the breaking of bread, the giving of。
that, the sharing in the wine, how all of that began to speak to the early church about。
the power of God who brings us through Exodus. The Exodus is not just a book in the old。
Testament. It is a blueprint for understanding the work of God in the world today. And this。
is the beauty of it, the power of it, the profundity of this book. And the book is shaped。
around two essential processes. Those are the process of going into freedom communally。
and individually. If Exodus is about anything, it's about a communal journey of a nation。
discovering freedom from oppression, discovering hope out of slavery. God comes to a nation.。
He is turning compassion for a nation. He raises up people to lead a nation. He draws。
that nation through the most miraculous, powerful things that he has done, perhaps in all the。
scripture. And he does it because he wants the nation to be shaped by those shared experiences.。
So Israel together experiences the parting of the sea. Israel together experiences the。
pillar of cloud on Mount Sinai. Israel together hears the law being given on the stone tablets.。
Israel together sees what it's like to walk into the promised land and receive the long。
held promise that God had for them. God does it in a nation because there's something powerful。
about a community of people experiencing God together. But it's not just communal. Importantly,。
the Exodus is also personal and individual. As we'll see next week, it all begins in the。
calling of four women, individual women who have the courage to stand up against an empire。
and say enough is enough. It then focuses on an individual man, Moses, a man who's deeply。
broken, a man who's shamed of his past, a man who needs Exodus himself and how he feels。
about the darkness that sits in him. And then a man who is then used to lead a nation to。
freedom. And then throughout the journey, there are people like Hur and Aaron, Jethro。
and others that come to the fore. God uses individuals to also lead them on a journey。
of salvation. And over the next 25 weeks, this is what we're going to do. And I want。
to encourage you to set both a communal and an individual expectation. I believe that。
God's going to do something powerful amongst us over these 25 weeks communally together.。
I want to invite you to be here every single week as we journey through this together,。
because I believe God's going to reshape something in our culture, reshape something in who we。
are. If God has come and done that for a nation in the past, can he not come and do that in。
Hong Kong and China today? If God has come and shaped and changed the culture of a people。
before, can he not come and shape the change the culture of a people now? It's something。
that he longs to do together. But if your expectations are only communal, then I think。
you're actually going to miss out a lot of what this is all about. Because at the very。
heart of it, Exodus is for you. There is a journey of Exodus that God is calling you。
on. He's calling me on. There is a movement, a need for a movement away from the brokenness。
that is in me towards more freedom in Christ Jesus. And if you come here expecting to look。
at some visually engaging films and be entertained and learn something about the Exodus, you're。
actually going to miss out on the whole point of this, which is for your Exodus.。
This whole series was birthed five years ago. And as so many things are in my life, it was。
birthed whilst I was walking and praying. And I saw a picture, and I was praying for。
us as a church five years ago, and I saw a picture of a crowd of people worshipping.。
And in this crowd of people worshipping, their hands were all lifted in the air. It's a beautiful。
picture. But as I looked closely, I could see that there were shackles around the wrists。
of everybody, and there was a chain between their hands. They weren't chained together.。
They're all individual. But each of the hands that were in the air had shackles around them。
and chain between them. And I felt like God was communicating that this group of people。
were worshipping and had a desire in them to live the life that Christ had always called。
them to live, a desire in them to be Christian, to live Jesus in the world, and a loving desire。
to worship Him. And yet something was weighing them down. Something was holding them back.。
They weren't truly free to worship Him. And these chains were heavy. And as I looked at。
this picture over time, I could see people's hands. They're trying desperately to keep。
them in the air, but the chains were wearing them down. And as I look closely in the chains,。
they were not new chains. They were brown, tinted, rusty. These were old chains, chains。
that had been hanging around for a long period of time. And I noticed that the chains, the。
links in the chains between the two hands of the people that were worshipping, weren't。
like normal links, but they were words. Some of them were names of people. Some of them。
were just specifically sins. Some of them were emotions. Some of them were places, the。
names of cities and places. Some of them were events that have happened. And I could see。
that what was weighing people down was these individual things, maybe one thing that they。
had not been able to shake, despite how desiring they were to worship. They had been carrying。
this thing around and around with them. And I realized that God was speaking to me about。
my own habitual sin, about those one or two sins that over 40 years of my life, I've struggled。
to shake, how I have seasons of victory. And yet I find myself then falling back into that。
sin once again, and knowing that I'm not really truly free. But I know that the picture wasn't。
just for me. I think the picture was for you. I think the picture was for everybody here.。
Because each one of us, I believe, have a desire to worship, and yet we all have things。
that weigh us down. We all have sin that we struggle with, sin that we struggle to shake.。
We all have experiences that have hurt us in the past that we carry around with us like。
baggage. We all have emotions that have run deep in us, and that kind of have this tendency。
to come up in us and hold us back. There is stuff that each one of us carry. And if that。
resonates with you, then this series is for you. God had you on His heart five years ago,。
and He was desiring for you to truly be free. Because what you need to understand when you。
read the book of Exodus, and when we teach a series like this, is that when we open the。
book of Exodus, we're not opening a story about something that God has done in the past。
for one group of people, written down for all eternity, so we can read something about。
what He did then. What we're actually reading is God's personality, His character, who He。
is, determining it for all people at all time, and saying, "What I did for this group of。
people, I will continue to do, because I'm the same yesterday, today, and forever."。
In other words, what we have is not a God who's the God of the Exodus of the past, we。
have a God who's the God of the Exodus today. Your Exodus, my Exodus, the thing that I need。
to break the chains that hold me back in my worship, a God who steps in and does what。
only He can do. There is no sin that Jesus Christ cannot help you to overcome. I'm going。
to say that again. There is no sin that Jesus Christ cannot help you to overcome. There。
is no slavery more powerful than the name of Jesus. There is no Pharaoh that God cannot。
bring to His knees. There is no empire that God cannot overcome. There are no seas that。
God cannot part. There are no mountains that God cannot shake. There are no deserts that。
God cannot provide for. There are no promised lands that God cannot stop you from entering.。
That's our God. We have a God of the Exodus. You have not come here to watch some visually。
engaging films and to be entertained for 25 weeks and learn something about the biblical。
book of Exodus. You've come here for biblical Exodus yourself.。
All right. I love the golf clap. It's beautiful. It's like he got a bogey. It should have been。
a par, but he got a bogey. Thanks, man. That was a birdie, wasn't it? You can tell he got。
a golfer in the second row. I love you guys. All right. I want to show you God's heart。
for you because God comes to the Israelites right at the beginning of the story. He says,。
"I want you to know what I'm about to do." As we start this series, I feel in my spirit。
this is what God wants to communicate to you. It's Him saying, "This is what I want to do。
in you. This is what I'm about to do in you." In Exodus chapter 6, the context is God has。
called Moses crazy, burning bush moment. A lot of stuff's happened. God comes in this。
moment and Moses is now back in Egypt. He's already spoken to Pharaoh a couple of times.。
Pharaoh's rejected him. God is reiterating to him time and time again what he's about。
to do. In this moment, Moses says to the Israelites through God what God is going to do in their。
Exodus. I want to read this to you from verse 6. "Therefore say to the Israelites, 'I am。
the Lord, and I will bring you out from under the yoke of the Egyptians. I will free you。
from being slaves to them, and I will redeem you with an outstretched arm and with mighty。
acts of judgment. I will take you as my own people, and I will be your God. Then you will。
know that I am the Lord God who brought you out from under the yoke of the Egyptians,。
and I will bring you to the land that I swore with uplifted hand to give to Abraham, to。
Isaac, and to Jacob, and I will give it to you as a possession, for I am the Lord.'"。
God says here, and He does this in a number of places, but I think it's more beautifully。
put here. He says five things. I'm going to do five things. These are the five critical。
movements of Exodus. These are the five critical movements that the whole book of Exodus is。
shaped on. These are the five movements that I'm going to preach through as we go through。
this series, and these are the five things that will always be at work in your freedom。
from sin. And here they are. The first one is this. God acknowledges their slavery. "I。
will bring you out from under the yoke of the Egyptians." He knew they were in slavery.。
The second thing is He gives them a promise. He says, "I will free you from being slaves。
to them." There's a promise. This is what I will do for you. I will free you from being。
slaves to them. He then tells them about the process of His liberation. He says, "I will。
redeem you with an outstretched arm which always spoke about miracles and power, and。
with mighty acts of judgment." That's how He's going to liberate them. He then speaks。
about the reason why, because He wants to shape a new identity in them. He says, "I。
will take you as my own people, and I will be your God." And then He tells them the result.。
He says, "I will bring you to the land that I swore with uplifted hand to give to Abraham,。
Isaac, and Jacob. I will give it to you as a possession, for I am the Lord." Five things.。
Slavery, promise, liberation, identity, home. Those are your five steps to freedom. It starts。
with you saying, "I know that there is some slavery in me, and I've been carrying it around。
for a long time. There are chains at times between my lifted hands and worship." It's。
then believing the promise that God has given, that in the life, death, and resurrection。
of Jesus, your sins have been paid for, and the price has been paid, and in the blood。
of Christ, you have been set free. Then it comes in trusting the journey of liberation。
that He leads us on through the power of His Word and the work of His Spirit in our lives.。
And then it comes in receiving the new identity that we have in Christ Jesus. For anyone who。
is in Christ Jesus is a new creation. The old is gone, the new has come. And as we walk。
in the new identity that we've been given in Him, we know then that we don't fall back。
into the old habits, but we find ourselves liberated into the new. And as we walk into。
the new, we are those new people who carry the hope of Christ to the world, inviting。
people out there into a new home themselves, into an experience of relationship with Jesus.。
And in this process of slavery, promise, liberation, identity, and home, we journey from our sin,。
into greater freedom to worship Him. And that's the powerful thing in all of this, that this。
movement, that this journey is to lead us towards something new. See, the Exodus narrative。
is about disruption. It's about being subversive in order to create something in order that。
might settle. I want you to see the journey here. There is disruption from our sin, disruption。
from our slavery, subversion of oppression and empire, so that God can create a new nation,。
a new identity in His people, a new people that would go forward carrying His character。
in the world, so He could settle them in a home where they could worship Him without。
rest. And this is the really important thing. You see, Exodus is not actually about freedom.。
Really important you hear this, church. Exodus is not actually about freedom. Exodus is about。
intimacy. Because what God says in chapter three of the book of Exodus, He says, "I want。
to liberate my people." Why? "So they might worship Me." So they may not have the chains。
between their hands anymore. See, the beauty of Exodus is that there is a drawing out to。
draw in. God is not just liberating us from our sin so that we can experience some great。
freedom and then in our freedom fall back into slavery again. Paul would write to the。
church, he would say, "You are free, now be free." See, we are taken out of slavery so。
that we are then taken into something. What is it that we're taking into? We're taken。
into greater depth of intimacy with Jesus Christ. You are free in order to worship.。
You are free in order to find intimacy with Him. And this drawing out to drawing in is。
a metaphor throughout the whole book of Exodus. Moses is drawn out of the weeds, out of the。
reeds of the river, now taken into Pharaoh's home. Israel are drawn out of their slavery。
into the desert, because the desert was to refine them before they got into their home.。
And the same will be for you. God through His power is drawing you out of sin, not just。
so that you can enjoy freedom, but in your freedom, truly be free. To worship, to be。
in intimacy, to walk with Him, to experience life and love like it has never been before.。
That's what Exodus is all about. And so there are these two metaphors that run throughout。
the whole thing. The first I've already mentioned to you, it's the individual and communal.。
The individual journey to the communal. When you become Christian, you are not just saved。
out of your sin, you are saved out of your sin into the body of Christ. So in other words,。
you are individually saved. Christ comes and redeems and renews your brokenness and your。
sin, your sin that put Jesus on the cross. You're free and liberated from that sin through。
relationship and forgiveness and repentance in Christ Jesus. It's a beautiful thing. But。
then you're put into a new family, a new community, the body of Christ. And when we come to see。
this, when we see what happens in the Exodus story, where they're taken out of Egypt and。
put into their own land, as they individually experience their intimacy with Christ, they。
then come into intimacy with one another as a new nation. This drawing out to draw in。
together is a big part of what Exodus is all about. This is why we talk about community。
all the time here at the Vine. It's not just something that we kind of want you to do.。
It's what you've been saved for. You've been saved to be in intimate relationship with。
the people that you're sitting around right now. And you can't know everybody in this。
church personally and intimately, but you should know some of them because the church。
is not 90 minutes on a Sunday, it's the people of God. You've been saved out of your sin。
into the body of Christ. And my prayer for you through this series is that you would。
feel the encouragement and the love of a growing community around you. It's a little bit like。
all of these little mosaic tiles that I'm holding in my hand here, which you probably。
won't be able to see very well because they're really, really, really small, but I'm going。
to hold one up right here. I got all these tiles from a little shop in Amman, the capital。
of Jordan, just some two and a half hour drive away from the desert where Israel wandered。
for 40 years. And as you came in today, perhaps, especially if you're sitting here in the lower。
house, you may have received one of these little mosaic tiles and you're probably wondering。
why was I given a little Lego piece. It's not a Lego piece. It's a little mosaic tile.。
Let me tell you about why this is important. Because in many ways, the Exodus is like this。
journey where we go from being this one little thing, this one little person who's carrying。
all of the things that they carry, and we experience a liberation from God, which doesn't。
keep us alone, but that liberation brings us together with others. And the powerful。
thing about these little mosaic tiles is, of course, on their own, they're just like。
this little, small, little thing. But when you put it next to lots of other little, small。
things, the shop where I brought this from, they make these incredible mosaic art pieces,。
the most incredible things you've ever seen, all made up of thousands, literally thousands。
of little, little pieces of tile, just like this one. And as you came in, you were given。
one, and it represents so much who you are, but it actually represents a much bigger story。
that you're swept up in, a story where your little tile, if it's held back, keeps the。
mosaic from being completed. But when your little tile is placed in to the mosaic that。
God is creating here at the vine, that mosaic takes on a picture and an image that it had。
never experienced before. That's a drawing out to draw in.。
The other thing that is the metaphor that runs through the whole of the Exodus story。
is the metaphor of new creation. In fact, much of the language of Exodus is mirroring,。
echoing the language from Genesis 1 and 2, the language of creation. And the Hebrew in。
Exodus links back to that first moment in Genesis, where when God moves and He acts,。
it's like He's deciding to start again. He's deciding to step into, like He did in Genesis。
1 and 2, where He stepped into darkness. And out of that formlessness of darkness, He brought。
light. He shaped and formed and created something. So God in the Exodus steps into a new darkness,。
the darkness of sin, the darkness of slavery, the darkness of oppression. And He steps in。
with a light of hope and the light of compassion and the light of new life. And He moves His。
people from their darkness of slavery into a new light. And light becomes this main theme。
throughout the book. God first appears to Moses in a burning bush, the light of that。
bush drawing him towards it. God appears before the whole of Israel in a burning cloud of。
fire on Mount Sinai. He then becomes a pillar of fire that leads them through the desert。
day in and day out. He then becomes this power of fire that's met in the tabernacle across。
the Ark of the Covenant as they erect the tabernacle when they stop on that journey.。
And light becomes this idea that God is at work, present with His people, moving them。
from their slavery into something better, from darkness into light. And that's the journey。
He's bringing you on as well. The word Exodus is a Latin word that derives from a Greek。
word which is exodus with an O at the end. And exodus means this, a departure. I think。
that's such a beautifully profound thought. Because what we're doing today is we're drawing。
a line in the sand and we're saying today is the day of our departure. See, no journey。
to freedom begins unless you take that first step. I love that moment in the Lord of the。
Rings where Samwise and Frodo are moving out finally after being given the mission by Gandalf.。
And there's that moment where Samwise stops Frodo and Frodo's like, "What are you doing?"。
And he's like, "I've never been this far away from home than right now." And he takes that。
next step towards his adventure, a departure. See, your exodus begins when you're willing。
to make a departure, when you're willing to say, "I'm tired of the darkness," when you're。
willing to say, "I'm so over this thing that continues to hold me back," when you're willing。
to say, "I admit that there's a habitual sin in my life that I can't seem to break," when。
you're willing to say, "I can't fix this myself, but I need God to come and do something that。
only He can do," when you're willing to say, "This is not actually always about me. This。
is about my family. It's about the people around me. It's about my community. It's about。
me becoming a better version of myself for them. It's about you saying, 'This is my moment。
where I can move into a greater sense of freedom than I have ever felt before.'"。
So as we start this series on exodus, here's my key question to you. What is it that you。
need exodus from? What is it that you need to depart from? What is your exodus? That's。
the question. That's the question that has driven this whole series for me. It's the。
reason why we've taken four years to pull this together. It's the reason why our church。
has invested the money that it has into this series. It's the reason why we're taking 25。
weeks to walk through this series together. It's the reason why I'm going to get up here。
and preach my heart out to you as much as I can week in, week out, is because I believe。
this is your moment. I believe that that picture of us with chains between our hands as we。
worship will not be the picture of this church moving forward. I believe in your freedom.。
I believe in your release, but it will require a departure. You need to choose to move from。
darkness to light. To help you to reflect a little bit more about this journey from。
darkness to light, as well as all the teaching films that we've created for this series,。
and a number of times, critical times throughout the series, we've also created some creative。
videos. These videos are not so much about teaching, but more about an experience. One。
of these videos, the one we're about to watch now, is a poem that we wrote as a team that。
put this together. We wrote this poem to help us to understand the profundity of what it。
is to be trapped in darkness, and yet the beauty that there is in a God who steps forward。
to bring light. As we watch this creative film now, I want to pray that you would do。
so in a prayerful spirit, asking that God would come and speak to you about what your。
departure is today. Then after that, I'll come and pray for us. Let's watch this.。
It begins in the emptiness of nothingness, where darkness has extinguished even the memory。
of light, where nothingness and emptiness tear space into fragments and everything is。
nothing at all. It starts here, where fear shackles and failure persists, where slavery。
binds and oppression resists. It starts here, in the place you least expect, suddenly a。
light, dancing to be noticed within the empire of darkness, crackling with beginnings, restless。
with life, as if the emptiness had simply been waking for divine direction. It starts。
here. Shadows now play against the walls of death, movement and memory and miracles and。
might breaking into nothingness with the heresy of possibility, shaming the darkness with。
the creation of hope. It starts here. A drawing out, a calling forth, a voice in the wilderness,。
a wilderness of voices, whispers of freedom, bushes on fire, a journey beyond, ascending。
to glory. It starts here, in the emptiness of nothingness, in the slavery and oppression,。
in the fear and the failure and the pharaohs in us all. May you see what heaven is stirring.。
For a light has come and a light is coming, death now dead, bushes now burning. Yes, a。
light has come and a light is coming, death now dead, bushes now burning.。
[Music]。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
