The reason why Good Friday is called good is because Abel's blood is not the only blood。
that tells the story.。
The writer of Hebrews says, doesn't he, that the sprinkled blood of Jesus tells a better。
word than the blood of Abel.。
For the writer, I think he understood that in the sprinkled blood of Jesus on the cross,。
a new time of history has begun, which is why the New Testament speaks of Good Friday。
as the turning point of all history.。
One way to think about it might be that all of the word that Abel's blood has spoken through。
thousands of years of history, the words that hurt us and have framed and so deeply shaped。
us, all of those words funnel into the cross.。
And through the death of Christ on the cross, a new word flows out of him, a word that changes。
everything, a word that invites us into a new story and a new season, a word that begins。
to say something that is the opposite of what had been said before, a word that turns everything。
on the axis of its power.。
This is the new hope that is now seen with this blood that Jesus sheds.。
What has always been so profound to me is that the words that Jesus speaks with his。
mouth on the cross foretell the word that his blood would speak from his body.。
He says on the cross, "Father, forgive them for they know not what they do."。
Beginning a new story of forgiveness where jealousy and rage had been the story before.。
He then turns to the criminal who's being crucified next to him and he says this, he。
says, "Today you will be with me in paradise."。
And I love that idea because what Jesus is saying is this, no matter how strongly the。
previous word of Abel has shaped you, no matter how hard life might have been, no matter how。
difficult things have been because of the words that have been spoken and said of you。
with just one word from Jesus, everything can change.。
Immediately he says to the criminal, "You will be with me in paradise."。
And then Jesus speaks the most important three words in all of history, "It is finished."。
In other words, the story that Abel's blood began is done.。
It is finished.。
It's paid for.。
It is replaced now with a new story and with new words and with new hope that even though。
sometimes the Abel voice seems so loud in us because of what's happened on the cross。
now, everything has been turned upside down and a new voice can be heard in the world.。
A new voice can be proclaimed from the brokenness that was seen on the cross.。
A new voice now spoken by sprinkled blood.。
I love what God is doing on the cross.。
Think of it this way.。
God in his saving compassion for all that he has made, takes what was a symbol that。
was designed to communicate nothing other than the human power of death and he turns。
it into a symbol that now communicates nothing other than the divine power of life.。
That's Good Friday.。
That's the cross.。
That's the beauty and the wonder of what Christ has done.。
And so while on this night we should come with the words that Abel has spoken and we。
should recognize the sin that so easily entangles in us and recognize and write them down and。
stick them there and proclaim that we know that that blood still speaks to us.。
Yes, we do that.。
But here's what Good Friday really is.。
Good Friday is a celebration.。
Good Friday is a place of joy.。
And of course when we get to the tomb on Sunday and we see its emptiness, we have a new profound。
understanding of what resurrection is.。
So we don't have to wait for Sunday to understand that a power has happened, that a story has。
been changed, that a new story has begun.。
Good Friday is good because it already proclaims something good.。
It already births new life for us all.。
It already welcomes us into a better story than the story we had been walking in before.。
That is Friday.。
And so as we recognize this, we begin to reflect on how Jesus' blood tells a dramatically。
different story.。
Think on a few of these with me for a moment.。
Where Abel's blood was shed in privates and from the ground it cried out for God for justice,。
Jesus' blood was shed in public and cried out from the cross in justice.。
Where Abel's blood was shed out of a place of vengeance and created hostility, Jesus'。
blood was shed from a place of forgiveness and invoked grace.。
Where Abel's blood brought a curse on its offender, Jesus' blood brings a blessing to。
all offenders.。
Where Abel's blood drove Cain from the presence of God, Jesus' blood reaches out to every。
prodigal son and daughter and says, "You are welcomed home, embraced in a new home where。
we share in the banquet of reconciliation with the Father."。
Where the blood of Abel spoke a story that was shaped by jealousy, arrogance, and pride,。
the blood of Jesus speaks a story that is shaped by welcome, humility, and grace.。
This is the story we're wrapped up in.。
I love the way that theologian Brian Zahn puts it.。
He says this, "When grace was pierced, it bled pardon."。
And that forgiveness that sits in the wonder of the sprinkled blood of Jesus is the beginning。
point of the new story for you and I.。
When the apostle Paul was trying to bring words to understanding the power of the turning。
point of the cross, he wrote it like this in Ephesians 2 verse 13, "But now in Christ。
Jesus, you who were once far away have been brought near through the blood of Jesus."。
This is the new story, my friends, that we hold onto on Good Friday.。
No longer separated by the old story, but now drawn near in the new.。
No longer striving to create something of significance and being exhausted, but now。
found in the hands of God in all fruitfulness.。
No longer restless wanderers, but sons and daughters, children of the living God.。
That is a better story.。
That's the story we celebrate today.。
And that story should light something up inside of you that makes you proud of the fact that。
you have a Savior who is willing to do that on the cross.。
One who offers to you a new beginning, new hope, where the words that we've written on。
the cross today, words that spoke of the story that Abel has given us are no longer the words。
that should shape us from this moment forward.。
And we want to help you to celebrate the new story that has been purchased by the sprinkled。
blood of Jesus for you.。
So like we did before, I'm going to hand now back to Justin and back to Ellison, and they're。
going to lead you in liturgy and prayer and another activity that enables the sprinkled。
blood of Jesus to tell to you tonight a better story.。
You pray again once more.。
Where the shedding of Abel's blood called for vengeance and invoked a curse, the shedding。
of Jesus' blood calls for forgiveness and invokes a blessing.。
Where in the shedding of Abel's blood there is jealousy, arrogance, and pride, in the。
shedding of Jesus' blood there is humility and grace.。
Where the shedding of Abel's blood has driven us away from the land and left us wandering。
about in fruitless labor, the shedding of Jesus' blood brings us peace in the hands。
of God, calls the prodigal home, reaffirming their place eternally in the presence of God.。
Where the shedding of Abel's blood separates us from God, speaking death over humanity,。
the shedding of Jesus' blood ends the reign of sin and death over humanity and speaks。
a better word of love, forgiveness, and life.。
- As a church, we get to do something really special now, and this is a really beautiful。
way we can pray for and encourage each other.。
So just as we wrote down words of, you know, that come from the blood of Abel all over。
these crosses we see around us, but now we get a chance to speak the blood of Jesus over。
ourselves.。
And so what I want us to do in this next section is, you know, take these words that have been。
written, and as you come forward, you'll see a red pen that is on the, at the foot of the。
cross as well.。
So choose one, don't choose your own, but try and find one that, you know, interests。
you.。
Read it, pray about it, and then ask God to give you a better word to speak over what。
you've written and read on these post-it notes.。
And once you receive that word, I want us to cross out the word that was written, and。
we write the new word on it, the word of life, the word of hope, the word that God has given。
to you to speak and to pour out as His blood did over each other.。
So does that make sense, what I'm saying?。
Okay, so again, all over the, try and find one that's not your own.。
Take it, pray for that person, pray over that word, cross out the old word, and write a。
new word, word of life, word of hope, word that comes from the Lord.。
And in this way, we can encourage and pray for each other as a church.。
So again, take some time to do that.。
After you do that, you'll also notice that there's some communion cups that are available。
at the foot of the cross as well.。
So we want to make communion available for everyone here tonight as well.。
In the cup, of course, is the bread, which represents the body of Christ, and the blood,。
the wine that represents the blood of Jesus.。
And we do this in commemoration of what Jesus did for us as well.。
So you can take communion in your own time.。
If you've come with friends and family, you can take communion together in that way as。
well.。
So grab your communion, go back to your seat, and take communion in your own time.。
And at the same time, if you want to come forward, take one of these words, cross out。
the old word, and write a new word of life and hope over each other tonight.。
So yeah, come on, church.。
Let's pray for each other in this way.。
[MUSIC]。
