Everyone says, "Amen."。
Amen, amen.。
Okay, can we take our worship team as always?。
(congregation applauding)。
Have a seat, have a seat.。
As always, we're incredibly full here.。
So as you sit down and you realize。
that you might have a seat next to you,。
maybe just raise your hand.。
Our host will try and come and place people in seats.。
We have a couple of seats here.。
There's one here.。
There's one here, is that one?。
There's one here, you guys.。
(clicking)。
Anyone else need a seat?。
There's some seats around.。
If you're new to The Vine, welcome.。
We're so glad you're here.。
My name's Andrew.。
I'm one of the pastors here,。
and we're glad that you guys are a part。
of what we're doing here at The Vine.。
And if you're joining us online,。
welcome for wherever it is that you're tuning in online.。
We're in week three of a four-week series。
that we're starting at the beginning of this year,。
where we're looking at this idea。
that there are four mindset shifts。
that we need as people。
if we're gonna transition from the year of 2024,。
which here at The Vine was a year of intimacy with Jesus,。
to a year of what we're saying 2025 is about,。
a year of harvest, a year of birthing, a year of action.。
If we're gonna move from a place of intimacy。
to a place of action,。
there are four mindset shifts that are needed。
for us to move into all that God has for this year.。
And so this series,。
we're basing in the lives of Samuel and David,。
and we're looking at a very critical time。
of biblical history,。
the time where at the end of Samuel's life,。
he finishes his work as a judge。
and he anoints first Saul to be king,。
and then he anoints David to be king.。
And then David begins this moment in his life。
where he's preparing himself to become the king。
that the Jewish people in the Old Testament speak of。
as this Davidic dynasty.。
This time where the bloodline of David himself。
will go all the way to bringing in Jesus Christ.。
That moment of history。
is what we're looking at over this series.。
And it's such a critical moment。
because there is a transition that happens。
for both Samuel and David。
from a place of deep intimacy with the Lord。
to a place of being used by him。
to use their story for his glory.。
And as we dive into this,。
as I was just saying a moment ago,。
it's so easy for us to end up living someone else's story.。
It was tempting for Samuel and for David。
to remain in the story。
that someone else had written for them。
rather than release themselves。
with courage and boldness and bravery。
into the story God was asking them to live.。
And I honestly wanna just say one more time,。
as I look over you guys,。
I have such a burden in my heart.。
I'm so excited about the potential that is in this room,。
about the stories that God is already writing。
on your lives and in your hearts.。
And I believe that we can be released。
into that story even more。
as we open ourselves to what happens here.。
In the first week of this series,。
we talked about what it is to have a right start,。
how we can position ourselves to begin the journey well.。
Last week, Ellison took us through this incredible message。
where he spoke to us。
about the power of making the right choices,。
not only realizing that we need to start。
from the right place,。
but we need to make the right choices。
in the journey that we're in.。
Today, I wanna talk to you about wearing the right clothes.。
That's right, the right clothes.。
Now, what on earth is that all about?。
Well, to understand that,。
we need to pick up the story。
from where Ellison left off last week.。
We saw at the end of last week。
that Samuel pours out that oil,。
the horn that he had filled with oil,。
he pours it out over the top of David。
and he makes the right choice.。
He doesn't look by the surface of things,。
he looks in the heart and he chooses David.。
He pours and he anoints David to become king.。
Now, here's the fascinating thing.。
I want you to hear this.。
David doesn't actually become king for another 12 years.。
It's really fascinating that.。
There's actually a whole sermon here。
that I don't have time to preach right now,。
but I'm gonna preach you the minimum sermon, okay?。
I'll preach you like the one minute version of that sermon.。
Just because God has anointed you for a task。
doesn't necessarily mean that it's the right time。
to start that task.。
Because you see, David was anointed to be king,。
but it would be 12 years。
before he actually became king of Israel.。
And if David's anything like me,。
there's a lot of frustration in that break,。
between I'm anointed, God's called me,。
God's asked me to do something,。
but it's 12 long years before I can actually do it.。
But God understood that David needed some training.。
He understood that there needed to be a season。
of waiting in David's life.。
He knew that actually David needed a time。
to embrace the character by which he would need。
to hold him in the place of anointing.。
And although he was anointed 12 years,。
he would then have the character and the skill。
and the vision to be able to stand as king。
and be one of the greatest kings that Israel has ever had.。
Some of you right now, you've been anointed for a task,。
but it's not necessarily the right time。
for you to move into that task.。
There's a time of anointing,。
and then there's a time of waiting.。
And then there's sometimes a time of learning,。
and then some discipleship, and a time of equipping,。
and then a time of releasing.。
So David is anointed to be king, but there's this period.。
And what happens in that period is that Saul。
invites David into his household.。
This is really interesting because Saul sees in David。
that there is this incredible potential in him,。
and he invites him in.。
Now, the reason why he invites him in。
is because Saul at this time。
is having demonic manifestations.。
He's struggling with a demonic spirit,。
and only when David plays a harp。
does that demonic spirit quieten in his life.。
And so he brings David in,。
and anytime he feels this demonic spirit coming on him,。
he asks David to play the harp,。
and David plays the harp, and it chills him out.。
Now, Saul is so pleased with this.。
In fact, the Scriptures say that he so likes David。
that he makes David his personal armor bearer.。
Now, this has a lot to do with what I'm gonna say,。
so just listen to this for a moment.。
He makes David his personal armor bearer.。
What that means is that David was responsible。
for Saul's battle armor.。
So whether that was his tunic that he would wear under it,。
the armor itself, the weapons of battle。
that the king would have,。
it was David's responsibility to make sure。
that those things were always battle-ready,。
so to make sure that the sword was always sharp,。
to make sure that the tunic was always folded neatly,。
to make sure that the armor was prepared and oiled rightly。
so it would move with flexibility on the battlefield.。
It was David's responsibility to prepare the armor。
for whatever battle might come.。
Does that make sense to you?。
Now, interestingly, a battle comes.。
In fact, very soon after he's made armor bearer,。
just as these sort of stories go,。
suddenly a nation rises up to attack Israel.。
It's the nation of Philistia.。
And Philistia rises up and goes to the borders。
of Israel's land and threatens to attack Israel.。
So Israel's army move up towards the borders,。
and there's this standoff on the border.。
Now, here's the interesting thing.。
In those days, battles could actually be fought。
by a peculiar kind of custom.。
What it was is that one kind of warrior from one side。
and one warrior from the other side could fight,。
and whoever won that battle, the whole nation wins.。
So it was a way of kind of making sure。
there wasn't like bloodshed for everybody。
in this long protracted war.。
Just one warrior versus one warrior, fight it out,。
and then the nation, whoever warrior stands。
at the end of it, the nation wins.。
This is what happens.。
So Philistia sends forward their best warrior.。
You probably know this story.。
His name's Goliath.。
Goliath is described in the Bible as being nine feet tall.。
Don't ask me to explain that.。
He is nine feet tall, and he is terrifying.。
And the Bible says that he's been a champion。
since his youth.。
Now, this is interesting because Israel's response,。
the Scriptures write this,。
Israel's response is one of fear and dismay.。
They look at the nine foot giant。
who's been a warrior since youth,。
and they're thinking maybe it's better。
of the whole army's battle right now,。
'cause if one of us has to go against that one,。
there's no way this is gonna work out for us.。
And they're so filled with fear that nobody in Israel。
is willing to put their hand up to fight Goliath.。
And so the Bible says for 40 days,。
Goliath would come to the edge of the battlefield,。
dressed in all of his armor,。
and he would shout at the Israelites。
who were about 100 whatever yards away,。
and he would shout and say,。
isn't anybody willing to come and fight me?。
Are you all chickens?。
Are you all feeble?。
And then he would shout down Israel's God.。
Your God is nothing, blah, blah, blah.。
He would come and say all this verbal insults。
to the people, and for 40 days, Israel just sat in terror.。
Until one day, when David is so frustrated。
that no one is doing anything, that he decides to act.。
He's like, well, if none of you are gonna do it,。
well then, then I'll do it.。
And he starts to think,。
well, maybe I can go before this Philistine.。
He's just an uncircumcised Philistine.。
He doesn't have the power of God behind him.。
He represents something that is uncircumcised,。
something that is defiled,。
and he's standing before us and defiling the name of our God.。
This cannot happen.。
And so he goes to Saul and he says, I'll fight him.。
And Saul looks at him and says, no, you won't.。
Like, 'cause if you go, this whole thing's over.。
Like, if you go, we'll lose everything.。
He literally says, you're just a boy.。
Like, you're my armor bearer.。
That's basically like, it's like, you're not even,。
like, you've never been trained for war.。
You're not a warrior.。
You're not even a trainer.。
It's like, you know, in boxing,。
there's like the one guy that like tapes the gloves。
around the boxer's arms, right?。
That's basically David, right?。
And so Saul's like, sensibly, no, no, no, no,。
you're not gonna do this.。
And then David, I love the courage of David.。
He goes through his resume.。
Ever done this with someone?。
Oh, but you don't know who I really am.。
You don't understand that I'm a shepherd.。
You can imagine Saul going, great,。
that's gonna work really well.。
He's like, I'm a shepherd, right?。
Like, and he said, you gotta understand,。
I tend the flocks of my father,。
and when the bears come, and when the lions come,。
I run after them, and I defeat them.。
I kill them.。
And this Philistine, this Goliath,。
he's just like an oversized bear.。
He's like an oversized lion.。
If you let me, I will go and fight him.。
And for some reason, the Bible doesn't tell us why,。
Saul changes his mind, and he says, okay, then, go.。
And you're like, hang on, at this point in the story,。
you're like, what is going on here?。
Here's what I think is going on.。
Saul realizes that because none of his army。
is going to fight, everybody's looking at him to fight.。
And he's so afraid himself to fight。
that he's willing to let a shepherd boy go fight.。
Great leadership.。
[audience laughing]。
So, so we know the rest of the story, don't we?。
He lets David go.。
David puts five little pebbles in his pouch,。
and he takes his staff, and he takes his shepherd's bag,。
and he runs after Goliath, and he says,。
you're just a stinky, little, uncircumcised Gentile.。
[imitates gun firing]。
Hits him first try, stone in the forehead.。
Doesn't kill him with that shot.。
He falls on the ground and literally is passed out.。
And then he takes a sword, and he cuts off Goliath's head.。
That's what kills him, cuts off his head.。
And he holds his head up in front of everybody,。
and he says, look what my God has done.。
And we have, for all history,。
one of the greatest stories of an underdog。
winning for everyone, amen?。
There's a moment in the story, though.。
There's this moment in the story。
that is the real reason why I think。
David actually wins the battle.。
And it's not because he has these five stones in a sling,。
and he has his shepherd's staff,。
and he has a sword that he cuts his head off.。
Actually, I think he wins the battle much earlier than that.。
And there's this little part in the story。
that is very often overlooked.。
In fact, most of the times the story's told,。
this part isn't even told with it.。
But I think it's this moment in the story。
where actually the victory takes place.。
And I think if we can understand the principle。
of what David does in this part of the story,。
it might actually set you up for the battle。
that God has put before you.。
So I wonder whether we could look at this。
little moment in the story.。
We're gonna jump back to the moment。
where David is giving his resume to Saul。
about being a shepherd.。
So this is picking up in 1 Samuel 17,。
starting in verse 34.。
But David said to Saul,。
"Your servant has been keeping his father's sheep.。
"When a lion or a bear came and carried the sheep。
"from the flock, I went after it,。
"struck it and rescued the sheep from its mouth.。
"When it turned on me, I seized it by its hair,。
"struck it and killed it.。
"Your servant has killed both lion and bear.。
"The uncircumcised Philistine, ha, ha, ha, ha,。
"will be like one of them,。
"because he has defiled the armies of the living God.。
"The Lord who delivered me from the paw of the lion。
"and the paw of the bear will deliver me。
"from the hand of this Philistine."。
So Saul said to David, "Go."。
And the Lord be with you.。
Then Saul dressed David in his own tunic.。
He put a coat of armor on him。
and a bronze helmet on his head.。
David fastened on his sword over the tunic。
and tried to walk around because he was not used to them.。
"I cannot go in these," he said to Saul,。
"because I'm not used to them."。
So he took them off.。
Then he took up his staff in his hand。
and he chose five smooth stones from the stream。
and he put them in his pouch of his shepherd's bag.。
And then with his sling in his hand,。
he approached the Philistine.。
There's this beautiful moment that happens here。
where Saul finally says, "Okay, you're gonna go。
"because I don't wanna fight, so you're gonna go."。
And he says these really quite important words.。
He says, "Go in the Lord."。
Doesn't that sound great?。
Doesn't that sound faithful?。
But he does this really interesting thing.。
He says to David, "Go in the Lord,"。
but then he does immediately something。
that seems to contradict that very thing.。
Notice this.。
He says, "Go in the Lord,"。
and then he dresses him like himself.。
He says, "Go in the Lord, but I want you to look like me."。
Go in the Lord, but you're gonna wear my clothes.。
Are you following?。
Which seems kind of contradictory。
'cause you just told me to go in the Lord,。
but now you're telling me how you want me to go.。
I thought this was the Lord,。
but now you're making this again about yourself.。
But I want you to see what happens here.。
He says, literally, it says,。
"Saul, then dress David in his tunic."。
It's like Saul, his thinking is this.。
Now notice this, don't be upset at Saul。
because Saul loves David, remember?。
And Saul's sending David into a battle。
that he thinks David is not gonna win.。
So he wants to set David up for success.。
His intentions are really good.。
Are you following this?。
His intentions are pure.。
He says, "Look, you're gonna go into battle,。
"and I know that's gonna be hard。
"because there's a nine-foot guy。
"and you're just a shepherd's boy,。
"so you're probably gonna lose,。
"but I wanna give you the best thing I can give you.。
"I wanna help you to be best prepared。
"for the battle that's ahead.。
"I wanna do all that I can."。
So you know what?。
I'm gonna give you my armor.。
This is the best armor in Israel.。
Nobody else's armor like this.。
In fact, no one in the history of Israel。
has ever worn the king's armor.。
It's reserved specifically for the king.。
It's the nicest, most expensive, best prepared.。
It is the best armor that they could possibly be made.。
And my heart for you, David, is that you would succeed.。
So I'm gonna give you the best of myself,。
the best of me to you,。
so that you can do your best on the battlefield.。
His heart and his intentions are good.。
Do you follow that?。
But notice what the Bible tells us。
about the physical stature between Saul and David.。
Saul, we're described a couple of chapters earlier。
as head and shoulders above everybody else in Israel.。
He was tall, he was broad, he was big, he was muscular.。
And then we learned that David himself。
was small of stature, was a little boy,。
didn't have much muscle.。
You could think the two of them are like peas apart.。
Does that make sense?。
Like way apart.。
So when Saul goes,。
"Here's the best thing I wanna do for you.。
"I want you to take the best of me.。
"I'm gonna put it on you,。
"so that you can kind of wear it in the battlefield."。
It was literally like if somebody came to me and said,。
"Andrew, I've got this beautiful jacket。
"that's really expensive, and I want you to put it on。
"'cause you're gonna look awesome。
"when you preach on a Sunday."。
(audience laughing)。
And you put it on, and you're suddenly MC Hammer.。
(audience laughing)。
That's a reference from my era, by the way.。
But you suddenly put it on, and you can imagine David,。
he's honored.。
Follow this, church.。
He's honored because Saul has looked at him and said,。
"I want the best for you."。
And David loves Saul too.。
And so he takes on what it is that Saul wants to give him,。
and he puts it on.。
But you can almost see him putting it on,。
and Saul going,。
and David going like this, you know?。
Because he realizes that the tunic wasn't made for him.。
It wasn't designed for him.。
It didn't fit him, are you with me?。
It was comfortable for Saul.。
It was the best armor possible, but it fitted Saul.。
It didn't fit David.。
And yet now David's wearing it, and David's thinking,。
"Well, he's got the right heart for me.。
"He's got the right intentions for me.。
"I don't wanna upset him.。
"I don't wanna put him off, so I'll take it, I'll wear it."。
But suddenly he's like, "Hang on a sec.。
"This does not feel right for me."。
I want you to see this.。
See, David is dressed for the right battle.。
He's just wearing the wrong clothes.。
Like he knew the battle was the one。
that God was calling him into.。
He knew that he was being released to fight this.。
He had the courage to believe that if God was with him,。
the battle would be won,。
but he's suddenly dressed in the wrong clothes.。
See, this is 2025, and if you live here in Hong Kong,。
if this is your home city,。
if this is where you work and where you live。
and God has planted you here,。
I want you to hear this.。
No matter how you feel about Hong Kong,。
no matter whether you like it or you don't,。
whether you wanna be here forever or you don't,。
whether you're excited about its future or not,。
you need to understand。
that if this is where you are currently living,。
you are in the right battle.。
Like this land, this place,。
is the place where he wants to use your God-given gifts,。
your talents, your heart,。
to sow the gospel into this land.。
He wants you to fight with love and justice。
and heart and forgiveness.。
He wants you to bring the gospel。
into your sphere of influence.。
You are in the right battle.。
My question to you is,。
are you wearing the right clothes?。
Because you can be in the right battle,。
but wearing the wrong clothes.。
And David sort of realized that he was in a situation。
where things didn't quite seem to be right for him.。
And it's really important that we come to recognize。
that this doesn't just happen for David.。
This happens for all of us.。
That oftentimes, people in our lives。
who are really well-intentioned,。
who actually love us,。
who want the best for us,。
they want us to win our battle,。
they put their clothes on us.。
Because they love you and they want you to succeed.。
They want you to win the battle.。
And from their perspective,。
if only you could be a bit more like this,。
if only you could look a little bit more like this,。
if only you could act a bit more like this,。
then you will actually survive and thrive in this world.。
So there are people with good intentions。
that will try to put their clothes on us that don't fit.。
Are you with me?。
But there are also people with bad intentions,。
people that don't have our best in mind,。
people that actually want us to fail,。
that don't want us to succeed.。
David had someone who wanted his best.。
We can often have people that don't want our best,。
and they're still putting their clothes on us.。
What sort of clothes do people place on us?。
Well, let me go to my clothes rack。
and show you some of the clothes。
that I think people place on us.。
I think, first of all,。
they place their own expectations on us.。
They place their expectations,。
the thoughts that they have。
about what they're expecting you to do,。
how they expect you to act in certain situations,。
and how they expect you to be.。
And they have their own expectations。
for what they think is best.。
And again, it can come from a good place,。
but it can also come from a bad place.。
Either way, there are many of us in this room。
who are wearing somebody else's expectations,。
and it's weighing us down.。
Guess what?。
It doesn't fit,。
'cause it's not the expectation。
that God has asked you to wear.。
But you've put on somebody else's expectations.。
They've put those things on you,。
and you're now wearing them,。
and you're wondering why you're exhausted.。
What other clothes do we wear?。
I think sometimes we do this.。
We wear the values of others.。
Other people put their values upon us.。
Hey, this is how you should be.。
This is what you should stand for in this world.。
Hey, you should just sleep around.。
Everybody else is doing it.。
Hey, it's fine.。
I know you're a Christian,。
but hey, guess what?。
There's this really hot girl in the office in Singapore.。
I can hook you up when you're next there。
on a business trip.。
My values are the best values for you.。
And if only you could live a little bit more。
with my values in mind,。
I think your life would go a little bit better.。
And so whether we're good intentions or bad intentions,。
some of us in this room,。
we're wearing the values。
that we're not supposed to be wearing,。
the values that somebody else has placed upon our shoulders.。
Are you with me?。
Or if I can get a little bit more personal。
with us in our culture here in Hong Kong,。
look at all of these ones right here.。
Maybe some well-intentioned people in our lives。
have said, "Here's the university you should go to."。
Hey, if you just do the good grades,。
you'll get this university.。
Or maybe they're like, "Hey, here's the career.。
"You know, I know you are a dancer and you love to dance,。
"but guess what?。
"You're a lawyer.。
"You're a banker.。
"I know this 'cause I've seen your future.。
"And I know what's best for you.。
"You know, if you tried to dance,。
"you're gonna be unemployed working in Starbucks.。
"You don't wanna work in Starbucks.。
"Forget the creative arts.。
"Look, you can do that as a hobby,。
"but you're a lawyer."。
Or maybe someone said like,。
"Hey, here's the person you should marry."。
Oh yeah, I've got the person for you.。
You should marry this person because of what they can do.。
Or here's the company that you should work for.。
You're getting the point, right?。
So we have all these things, all these clothes。
that other people have placed upon us。
that we've either accepted and they've either done it。
because they love us or they've done it。
because they don't love us and they want us to fail.。
Either way, we're wearing stuff that doesn't fit。
and we're dressed for the right battle。
and we're wearing the wrong clothes.。
And if 2025 is gonna be a year of harvest。
and growth for us, if we're gonna be living our faith。
more publicly in the world around us,。
then we need to realize that we're sometimes not dressed。
in the right way for the battle that we've been placed in.。
Now, I want you to also hear this.。
This doesn't just happen。
because other people place their expectations,。
their choices or their values on us.。
This also happens because we take other people's。
expectations.。
We take other people's values。
and we place them on our own shoulders.。
So sometimes it happens because somebody does it to you.。
And some of you in this room,。
maybe you're well-meaning and well-loved parents。
or maybe it was a boss or maybe it was someone in your life,。
maybe it was a past relationship.。
They've placed some expectations and choices on you。
and it's weighing you down.。
But the reality is for a lot of us,。
we place those things on ourselves.。
Let me tell you this.。
I became senior pastor here at the Vine in 2013.。
And in 2013, I was 37 years old, don't do the math,。
but I was 37 years old at the time.。
And John and Tony, who are our previous senior pastors here,。
they did a fantastic job of taking a church of 40 people。
and growing it into this big。
and successful church in Hong Kong.。
And I was 37 years old。
and I had no idea how to be a senior pastor.。
I mean, I'd been to Bible school, I'd been prepared,。
they had done a great job preparing me.。
But as I stepped into the role,。
I felt overwhelmed with what it was.。
And I thought, I'm gonna be the senior pastor,。
the first in the Vine's history。
who's gonna take the church off the cliff.。
And the church has had this kind of trajectory growth。
since day one and then Andrew takes over.。
Are you with me?。
And now, hear this,。
John and Tony didn't put any expectations on my shoulders.。
I mean, I'm sure they had dreams for me。
and they had dreams for the church,。
but one of the things that they did。
most powerfully and beautifully。
is when I became senior pastor,。
they were like, be your man.。
Follow your dreams, listen to the Holy Spirit.。
They did all the right things.。
I did the wrong things.。
I was the one like, well, the Vine has always been this way.。
John and Tony have always done it this way.。
And if we're gonna continue to be successful,。
I guess we're gonna have to do it that way.。
And although maybe I've got some new ideas,。
I think actually I've got more fear in me than faith in me.。
And that fear is causing me to take on board what they did。
and try to be the same senior pastor that they were.。
And after a year of this,。
I was so emotionally and spiritually exhausted.。
I took my wife out for dinner.。
We sat down at this very public restaurant。
and I just started weeping like a baby in the restaurant.。
Everybody was looking at me like,。
what is going on with that guy?。
And I just started crying and crying.。
And I said to my wife, I said,。
what if I'm the first person in the history of this church,。
the first leader that actually ruins this church?。
What if people stop coming?。
What if people leave?。
What if we don't get our debts sorted out?。
What if all of this stuff happens?。
And I had all these fears in me。
'cause I had taken on someone else's expectations。
that I had chosen to wear myself,。
even when they weren't asking me to wear it.。
And my wife said something very important.。
She said, how long are you gonna go。
trying to pretend to be someone you're not?。
I wanna say that over some of you here this morning.。
How long are you gonna go。
trying to be actually someone you're not。
and instead try to be someone。
that someone else wants you to be?。
And David had to realize, hang on a sec,。
something's not quite right here.。
I want you to hear it this way.。
You cannot go into your battle。
wearing someone else's armor.。
I'm gonna say that one more time.。
You cannot go into your battle。
wearing someone else's armor.。
That never works.。
So what do we do?。
Notice what David does in verse 39.。
It says this.。
David fastened on a sword over his tunic。
and tried to walk around because he was not used to them.。
And then he says this.。
I cannot go in these, he said to Saul,。
because I'm not used to them.。
Can you see the courage that sits in David?。
Remember, David respected and loved Saul.。
And he so honored and respected him。
that he was very conscious of that.。
But notice what David does here.。
He doesn't honor and respect Saul greater。
than his conviction that God is calling him。
to live a life how he should be living it.。
He honors and respects Saul,。
but that honor and respect is not greater。
than his faithfulness to be committed and convicted。
to live how God's called him to live.。
So he takes the oversized jacket,。
he puts it on, he walks around,。
and then he has the courage in him。
to humbly, beautifully, kindly go up to Saul。
and say, Saul, I cannot go in these.。
I love you.。
I love you.。
And I know you have my best intentions in mind,。
but I cannot go in these.。
And I want you to hear this.。
Some of you here at the beginning of 2025,。
you've been wearing other people's expectations。
far too long.。
You've been wearing the heavy garments,。
the heavy clothes of other people's choices,。
of how other people want you to be,。
of how the dreams that they've had in their heart for you,。
and you've been sat under the weight。
of somebody else's dreams.。
And perhaps at the beginning of this year,。
you need to find the courage to say,。
I cannot any longer go in these.。
I cannot any longer go forward wearing。
what other people have asked me to wear.。
And I know they did it out of good intentions.。
I know they love me deeply.。
I know they want my best,。
but just like David does to Saul,。
I can't, I can't go in these.。
I'm just not used to them.。
They're not me, they're you.。
And they served you well.。
This battle armor was custom made for you.。
It served you well, but it will not serve me.。
David understood.。
He was more in danger in the battlefield。
wearing Saul's armor than in the courage to actually say,。
this is not gonna work for me.。
Oh, that we would get a spirit inside of us。
here at the Vine, where because we wanna go forward,。
because we wanna move,。
because we want the gospel to change our city,。
because we're so excited about how God's at work。
in the people around us,。
that we would realize that we need to take ownership。
of the clothes that we're wearing and decide,。
I am not gonna take another step forward.。
I'm not gonna move another inch forward.。
I'm not gonna go forward this year。
in the clothes that other people want me to wear.。
I cannot go in these.。
That prophetic prayer,。
that prophetic utterance in our hearts changes everything.。
And it changes everything for David.。
Do you know what he does next?。
Follow this.。
Is this helpful so far?。
Follow this.。
Look what he says here.。
I love this.。
In verse 39, he says,。
I cannot go in these, said Saul,。
because I'm not used to them.。
So he took them off.。
Everybody say amen.。
He took them off.。
Simple.。
So simple.。
I wish I could give you a more complicated process,。
but here's the reality.。
If you're wearing somebody else's clothes, take them off.。
First of all, you have to go, I cannot go in these.。
That's the first step,。
to realize this is not what I was designed to carry,。
to wear.。
I look kind of ridiculous in these.。
Then the second thing is, take them off.。
Now, this is really interesting,。
'cause it sounds so simple, doesn't it?。
Just take them off.。
But if it's so simple, why do most of us fail to do it?。
Because if you're anything like me,。
so often we actually fail to remove the clothes。
that we know we shouldn't be wearing.。
Those false expectations that have been placed on us.。
Those values that other people want us to live.。
Why is it that it's simple to take them off,。
but we very rarely do take them off?。
And instead, we live in the opposite of this.。
Instead, rather than take off the old,。
here's what we do.。
I'm just gonna put on the new.。
Like, I know I'm wearing stuff。
that I shouldn't be able to wear,。
but maybe I could just put on the new thing,。
and in putting on the new thing,。
no one will know that I'm still wearing the old.。
See, I think us Christians, we're good at this,。
'cause we're like, look, I know that there is。
this beautiful custom-made gown or jacket。
that God's made for me.。
This jacket, guys, was tailor-made for me.。
My wife tailor-made this jacket for me.。
Oh, this was expensive.。
This thing fits me like a glove.。
This thing's perfect for me.。
And as Christians, as we come into faith,。
we're like, Christ has his righteousness for us.。
Christ has his grace for us, his forgiveness for us.。
Christ has all these things that he wants us to be.。
He's got values and expectations。
that are given to flourish us,。
and we know as Christians that Christ has done this,。
and so here's what it is.。
We're wearing our old self, but we're like,。
I'm just gonna put on the new self,。
and if I put on the new self well enough,。
no one will know that I'm wearing the old.。
So we show up in church on Sunday wearing our new coat,。
custom-made for us 'cause of the blood of Jesus。
poured out into our lives.。
The cross paid the price so that I could be free。
in the expectations of Christ,。
and no one notices that I'm still wearing the old coat.。
I hope no one sees it.。
Maybe they see it.。
Maybe I'll just raise my hands a little bit more,。
and then no one will see it at all.。
And the thing is, we think that actually。
we can get away with two coats on.。
Here's the thing.。
Then we go into our offices,。
or we go into our social circles。
outside of our community of faith,。
and we're like this.。
And we play down the Christian bit, you know?。
And we just embrace the other jacket that we've always had,。
and it's like, hey, I'm just like you.。
I look good just like you.。
Are you with me?。
And we begin to sort of show that,。
or think that we're showing that we're a certain way。
and that this is the way we should be.。
You can't really see my Christian thing.。
Oh, and then somebody comes around the corner。
and goes to the vine.。
Oh, hi, how are you?。
Yeah, it's great to,。
[audience laughing]。
great to see you again.。
Nice to have you here.。
Yeah, good.。
Praise Jesus.。
Have a good day.。
[audience laughing]。
I joke, but I do this, and I'm a pastor.。
I found myself doing this at times.。
Perhaps you found yourself doing this at times.。
Why is it that we know we should take off the old clothes,。
but we actually just try to hide the old clothes?。
That we think Jesus will just cover everything up for us,。
and it'll be okay,。
even though we're still committed to two sets of values,。
two sets of choices, two sets of decisions.。
We've begun to define ourselves in that way.。
And we need to break out of this.。
David says, no, no, I'm gonna actually,。
as much as I love you, Saul,。
I respect you, I honor you,。
but you know what, I cannot go in these.。
I cannot go kind of holding two things of value。
at the same time.。
I need to kind of take these things off,。
and I need to change how I am,。
because you know what, it's just not me,。
and I know it's you,。
and I know you've got my best intentions.。
I know you love me, but you've gotta let me be me.。
Gotta let me be the way that Christ has called me to be.。
And I accept you, I love you, I honor you,。
but I cannot go in these.。
I take them off before I put anything else on.。
Some of you just need to realize。
that you've been trying to wear two jackets for too long,。
and that is not gonna help you。
to move forward in Christ in 2025.。
You cannot be a witness for Christ in public。
with your faith wearing two jackets.。
You know what people call that?。
Hypocrisy.。
And hypocrisy has killed the church。
so many times over 2,000 years.。
I do not want us at the Vine to be hypocrites.。
So let me challenge you strongly.。
Take off the old clothes.。
Have the courage and the bravery to remove them.。
Now, also follow this.。
Notice what happens next here from David.。
He takes off his clothes, and he says in verse 40,。
"Then he took his staff in his hand,。
"and he chose five smooth stones from the stream,。
"and he put them in the pouch of his shepherd's bag."。
Notice this, he takes off the old clothes,。
but he doesn't stand around naked.。
The call is not to nakedness.。
He picks up his staff, he picks up his shepherd's pouch.。
Now, he did not wear those when he was an armor bearer.。
So this is David not taking off the tunic。
and picking up some other armor.。
It's not him trying to still be like a battle-worn warrior.。
This is him saying,。
"I need to be who God has called me to be.。
"I need to embrace the very thing。
"that God has put into my life.。
"I need to go back to receiving the identity。
"that Christ has given me.。
"If I can't live out of my true identity,。
"then I cannot fight this battle.。
"So I'm gonna remove the identities and the pressures。
"and the expectations and the choices。
"that everybody else has placed on me,。
"and I'm gonna lay them down,。
"and I'm gonna pick up the only thing that I can wear,。
"and that is the righteousness of Christ,。
"how Christ has called me to be."。
And he picks up the shepherd's clothes again,。
and he goes into battle.。
And there's this beautiful thought here。
that our call is not to nakedness.。
Now, here's the thing.。
The world does that for us.。
This is fascinating to me.。
The world has a movement right now。
that comes to define what true freedom is.。
It says true freedom is basically getting rid。
of all expectations in your life.。
True freedom is getting rid of all responsibilities,。
all expectations, all responsibilities.。
Release the shackles of everybody else's expectations.。
Release the shackles of responsibility.。
Just strip it all away,。
and if you can just be your own boss,。
if you can rule your own life,。
if you can just get rid of every responsibility,。
every expectation, every person's choice,。
and just be you, that's freedom.。
The Bible does not describe freedom that way.。
The biblical invitation is not to nakedness。
and the stripping away of all shackles of responsibility.。
It's actually about taking up more responsibility。
than we've ever had.。
But it's not a yoke that is heavy。
and a burden that weighs us down.。
It is, as Jesus described,。
"Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened,。
"and I will give you rest.。
"I will place my yoke on you, and my yoke is light.。
"My burden is easy."。
And he places it on us.。
In other words, there's a responsibility we have。
to die to ourselves, pick up our cross,。
and follow after Jesus.。
The biblical call is not to nothing.。
It is not to be naked.。
The Bible does not call you to a responsibility-free life.。
Come on, church.。
The Bible doesn't call you just to do whatever you want,。
just to wear whatever you want,。
just to kind of work it out,。
just to derobe yourself from everything.。
No, the Bible does call you to recognize。
that you're wearing the wrong clothes,。
to recognize how you've been a part of that。
and how others have placed that upon you.。
It does call you to take off the old.。
Basically says anyone who is in Christ Jesus。
is a new creation.。
The old is gone, the new has come.。
You cannot put new wine into old wine skins.。
There's this challenge to remove the old,。
but then there's an invitation。
not to just stand around naked,。
but actually to be dressed in the clothes。
that Christ has paid the price for you for.。
I love this in Genesis 3.。
There's this beautiful moment, right?。
In Genesis 3, here's Adam and Eve.。
And they're naked and they're unashamed。
because sin hasn't yet come into the world.。
So in that time, humanity naked was a good thing.。
But then sin comes in through their own disobedient choice。
and they realize suddenly that they're naked.。
And the Bible tells us that the first thing they do。
is they're ashamed of their nakedness.。
And so they decide, okay, I need to cover myself.。
I need to make myself more presentable to God.。
I'm going to try my best to put clothes on。
that I think will earn my kind of relationship back with God.。
And so Adam and Eve, they clothe themselves。
with little fig leaves to cover up。
some of the parts of their bodies。
so that they could be more presentable to God.。
And God shows up.。
And first of all, because of the whole sin thing,。
there's a judgment that comes from him on Adam and Eve.。
But at the end of Genesis 3, he does this beautiful thing.。
He says, you tried to clothe yourself,。
that's never going to work.。
And he takes animal skins and he fashions garments for them.。
And he puts clothes on them.。
And out of those clothes, Adam and Eve。
have a restored dignity and grace before the Lord again.。
See, the Bible does not call you to nakedness。
and tells you that's freedom.。
The Bible doesn't call you to realize that you're naked。
and then challenge you to clothe yourself.。
As much as you shouldn't wear somebody else's clothes,。
you also shouldn't try to clothe yourself.。
You following this, church?。
As much as you shouldn't wear other people's clothes,。
you shouldn't try to clothe yourself.。
You're never going to put on an armor or a battle armor。
that's going to justify you before God.。
There is no amount of good works。
that is going to justify you before God.。
The only way that takes place。
is through the righteousness of the blood of Christ。
that was poured out in his life, death, and resurrection.。
In our recognition of the sin in our lives,。
the repentance of that sin, and the receiving of his grace.。
Then we get clothed like God closes in grace Adam and Eve.。
Then he comes and clothes our nakedness,。
our shame with his glory.。
We begin to wear the righteousness of Christ。
and we are transformed.。
Take a look at all of these verses coming up behind me now.。
This is the flow of scripture in this idea.。
Isaiah 64, eight starts with,。
"All of us have become like one who is unclean.。
"All our righteous acts are like filthy rags."。
We can't wear clothes that are going to justify us。
back in a relationship with God.。
Then Isaiah 61, 10, "I delight greatly in the Lord,。
"for my soul rejoices in my God,。
"for he has clothed me with garments of salvation。
"and arrayed me in robes of his righteousness."。
I'm going to, I love 24, 49,。
"I'm going to send you what my father has promised,。
"but stay in the city until you've been clothed。
"with power on high."。
Galatians 3, 27, "For all of you who have been baptized。
"into Christ have clothed yourself with Christ."。
Even in 2 Corinthians, "Meanwhile, we groan,。
"longing to be clothed instead with our heavenly dwelling,。
"because when we are clothed, we are not found naked."。
Amen.。
The call is not to nakedness.。
The call is to a responsibility,。
to live in the way that Christ has called you to live,。
through his mercy and his grace,。
his forgiveness placed on you.。
You are to remove the expectations and choices。
and decisions that have falsely been placed on you,。
either by others, whether with good intention or bad,。
or by yourself on your shoulders.。
You are to remove those things, not be naked,。
but then in your nakedness, come to the Lord and say,。
"Would you clothe me in righteousness,。
"that I believe that your blood clothes me。
"in righteousness."。
So I want you to see the process as we close,。
what David does here.。
He does three things.。
He realizes he's wearing the wrong clothes.。
He removes the clothes,。
and then he receives the right garments,。
the ones that he had been given at the very beginning。
to wear, his true identity, as God has called him,。
to be a shepherd.。
And he would go on to be a shepherd king.。
He would go on to lead his people much through the wisdom。
that he gained when he was in that time of being a shepherd.。
And so for you, some of you here are living。
somebody else's story.。
Whenever you do that, here's what happens.。
You become a poor imitation of somebody else's life.。
Some of us here have been weighed down way too much。
with good intended responsibility,。
expectation from others, and we've carried it around。
and decided that's the life we're going to live.。
And Christ says, "I've got a story for you to write,。
"but in order for you to write it,。
"you've got to be dressed in your clothes."。
Or you're in the right battle,。
but you're wearing the wrong clothes.。
You need to come and receive what it is。
that I've custom made, tailor made for you.。
And in these clothes, you will find true life.。
You'll be able to realize that you're not always wearing。
what it is that you should wear,。
and you'll take ownership in removing those things.。
And in removing them, you take action before the Lord,。
and you take what is rightfully his onto yourself.。
And in receiving, you take responsibility then。
to live the life that Christ has called you to live.。
That three-part process is what I believe。
sets David up for success before Goliath.。
And sure, he was good with that sling,。
and he was smart with how he did it,。
but the decision he made to remove Saul's clothes。
was the reason why on the battlefield。
he could truly be used by God.。
It'll be the same for you.。
And for you here today, some of you don't wanna leave。
this place until you've done some of that processing work。
with the Lord, realizing what it is。
that you might be wearing.。
For some of us here in this room,。
it's come from our parents.。
And our parents are amazing people,。
and just like Saul, all the best intentions.。
They wanted the best for you.。
They wanted you to live the best life,。
and yet they've placed expectations on you。
that have been a weight and a burden.。
I believe the Holy Spirit can release that from you today.。
Some of us here as parents, perhaps this is real for us.。
We recognize that we've placed some of that weight。
on others, and maybe the invitation for the work。
of the Holy Spirit today for us is just to come。
and ask him to free us of that guilt,。
or free us of that shame that we might be carrying。
that makes us feel like maybe I've done that to others.。
Just ask him to forgive us and make us new.。
Some of you in this room, you've chosen to put stuff on。
because you've wanted to be like everybody else.。
You haven't wanted to be alone.。
You've wanted to fit in.。
You wanted to be accepted, and so you've chosen。
to place on your shoulders how you think other people。
want you to act so that you would be accepted,。
loved, and fitted in to those around you.。
And perhaps today, it's the bravery that David had。
to say, "I cannot go in these,"。
and then pick up the true righteousness of Christ。
that has been provided for you so that you can put on。
the very thing that was tailor-made, custom-made,。
so it would fit perfectly on your body,。
and you would feel like this was the way。
I was designed to be.。
That's the story for you to write in the year ahead.。
Can I pray for you?。
Let's pray.。
Father, I thank you for everybody here.。
Lord, I thank you for the work you're doing。
in your spirit and by your presence.。
And Holy Spirit, as we come now to the most important part。
of the service, we bring you our clothes.。
And I want you just to take a moment,。
and if this message has been speaking to you,。
this is the time where the Holy Spirit wants to begin。
to speak and do and change and renew for you.。
Perhaps for some of us here today,。
we recognize that we have been wearing those oversized。
jackets of other people's expectations,。
other people's burdens.。
We try to be like others too much.。
Perhaps we've done it from a good place of a good heart,。
or perhaps we've done it because we wanted to fit in。
or be accepted.。
However it might be, we know that we're trying。
to be more like someone else than the person。
Christ has called us to be.。
And because of that, you're living right now。
somebody else's story and not your own.。
So whilst our eyes are closed, I wanna just pray。
if you would like the ministry of the Holy Spirit。
to help you to realize the clothes that you're wearing,。
to give you the courage to remove them,。
and then put you in a place to receive once again。
the forgiveness and the mercy and the righteousness。
of Christ for you.。
Maybe just as our eyes are closed,。
you just open your hands where you are.。
And I just wanna pray for you each,。
whether you're in the overflow, watching online,。
whether you're in this room, as your hands are open,。
you're saying, "Lord, I realize that there are just。
"too many clothes on me."。
Some of you in this room, I wanna repeat it,。
are wearing too clothes.。
You're trying to embrace the values of the world。
on the one hand, and then the values of Christ on the other.。
You cannot live that way.。
And if that is you, then this is a time。
of repentance for you.。
The Bible says His kindness leads us to that place。
of repentance, and maybe it's just an encouragement。
to ask the Lord to just be at work in your heart。
and to say, "Lord, I wanna ask for your forgiveness.。
"I don't wanna wear two jackets anymore.。
"I'm tired of it.。
"But Lord, I'm gonna need strength,。
"'cause it's not easy when I'm in that workplace.。
"It's not easy when I'm out having drinks with my friends.。
"It's not easy when that's happening.。
"And it's so easy for me to slip back into the old jacket.。
"Lord, would you give me strength and courage。
"to stand apart, to be holy, to pick up that cross,。
"to wear it daily?。
"Lord, would you help me?。
"'Cause I know that in my own strength,。
"I'll just fail again."。
Some of you just need to ask Jesus to help.。
(gentle music)。
And maybe for some of you, it's just this joy of knowing。
that you are to write a new story this year,。
and that you are to move forward。
in the righteousness of Christ, as he's called you to do.。
So Holy Spirit, for whatever reason,。
for those whose hands are open now, come, Lord Jesus, come.。
Just receive from him.。
He loves you so much.。
There's so much joy in his heart for you right now,。
'cause he's looking on you and he's seeing the future。
and he's seeing the potential, and he's like,。
"Oh man, this is gonna be amazing."。
He's like looking at you and saying,。
"Man, there's a David who's gonna be running。
"towards their Goliaths this year,。
"in the right battle, wearing the right clothes."。
So come, Lord Jesus, come.。
Just come, Lord Jesus.。
Thank you for your goodness to us.。
Thank you for your love.。
Just take some time to receive from him.。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
