Well, it's so good to see you. Happy 2026. Happy New Year. Sun and phylog. Sun and ginkgong. You know, like all those things. I'm going to stop. I need to save some for Chinese New Year.。
But yeah, it's great to see you. And I know at the beginning of the year, we, a lot, for a lot of us, we hold actually quite different emotions and feelings as we step into the new year.。
Now, some of us were excited. Maybe you have a new job and you're just excited where that's going to take you or you know you're going to be graduating or you have a big special date that's coming up that you're going to be celebrating.。
Or maybe it's time with your family or a vacation or something like that. And you're like, man, I'm excited about 2026. And that's awesome.。
Praise God for that, if that is your outlook for 2026. Then there's a lot of us were like, well, 2026, kind of like 2025, a little bit same old, same old, you know, moving, moving.。
It's last year. Same old, same old. Exactly. And you're like, you know, you don't have any special particular feelings about 2026. You're just moving forward.。
But I know there's also some of us who are actually dreading 2026, you know, for different reasons. And actually that weighs quite heavily on you.。
And so I don't know which group you're part of, you know, what your feelings are that you're holding today. But I want to tell you what I do know.。
I know that God loves every single one of you. I know that God has given us each other the journey with each other through this year.。
I know that God is mighty and powerful and able to do immeasurably more than all we can ask for or imagine.。
I know that His grace is sufficient for us and that God's power is demonstrated in our weakness.。
And I know that God is faithful and that He is with us. Can I hear an amen? Amen.。
But there is a question, you know, how are we personally stepping into 2026, not 2025? Otherwise you're doing something quite amazing.。
It'd be a miracle, right? But how are we stepping into 2026? Are we stepping in close to Jesus or are we actually quite disconnected from God?。
So what I want to explore with you today through this message is this question.。
You know, how can I draw close to God, experience His presence, power and love in my life this year like I have never experienced it before?。
You know, how do I do that? How do I make more room for more of God in my life?。
That's what I want to unpack with you. So this year, as Pastor Chapman already announced, we are doing a corporate fast.。
So we fast together as a church. It's a divine tradition. I've been doing this for eight years now, so you know how long I've been at the Vine.。
And it's been an incredible blessing to me to have a 21-day fast, the start of the year.。
It's a way of aligning ourselves with God, of opening our lives for more of God in our lives.。
And for making room for God to powerfully work wherever we need Him to work and to ask Him and invite Him into that.。
And so I'm excited. One of the great blessings of this fast is that we get to do it together.。
You're not doing it by yourself. There's actually power in seeking God together.。
It's so encouraging to know you're not the only one who's doing this. And so I'm excited about that as well.。
Now, the fast is starting tomorrow, January 5th, and it's going to last until January 25th.。
So you can have today to kind of sort out how you want to be part of it, decide whether or not you want to be part of it.。
Of course, my encouragement is be part of it. That's my challenge to you.。
And we're going to, as Pastor Chapman said, we're going to be sending out devotionals written by us, by our community,。
that can help us draw close to God through His Word, through prayers.。
And I want to just give a shout out to my team. So I told them last year, I don't have the energy to drive any of this.。
And they did it. So they have organized it. They have put it together.。
So a big shout out to Ivan, June, Talitha, and Chapman.。
[applause]。
Now I want to share with you also a verse that encourages us to draw near to God.。
It's from James 4, verse 8. It says, "Come near to God, and He will come near to you."。
That is a promise. So as we seek Him, God meets us. He will meet us. He will meet you.。
Now, if you're like me, I grew up in an environment where people didn't talk much about fasting.。
It was like this thing, every once in a while, if you read your Bible, you came across it, and then you moved on.。
I didn't really know what it was. I didn't really know what to do. And I didn't really see any spiritual significance in it.。
And so I thought today, it would be good to actually talk about what is fasting, why do we fast.。
And so that's what I want to spend time on with you here.。
Now, what is fasting, and why do we do it?。
Well, Jesus, it's interesting, He actually assumes that we are fasting.。
So if you go to Matthew 6, verse 16, it says this, "When you fast."。
So it's not like if you feel like fasting, or perhaps you will fast, or some of you might be fasting.。
It's like, when you fast. He's assuming that His disciples are fasting.。
"Do not look somber, as hypocrites do, for they disfigure their faces to show others they are fasting.。
Truly I tell you, they have received their full and reward."。
Now, Jesus is talking about not acting hypocritically, and making sure that other people know that you're fasting,。
and trying to look good in front of them, instead of caring about your relationship with God.。
So fasting is about a relationship with God.。
But then I want to also take you to what I think is a key teaching on fasting in the New Testament.。
And that's in Matthew, chapter 9, verse 14 and 15, it says this,。
"Then John's disciples came and asked him, 'How is it that we and the Pharisees fast often, but your disciples do not fast?'。
Jesus answered, 'How can the guest of the bridegroom mourn while he is with them?。
For the time will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them, and they will fast.'"。
Now, what's going on here?。
Well, John's disciples, or from John the Baptist's disciples, are asking Jesus, "Why are your disciples not fasting?"。
And they're wondering about that, because during that time, part of the normal spiritual practice,。
especially for those who are serious about their faith, was to fast twice, twice a week.。
And they're like, "Hey, you guys are feasting, but you're not fasting.。
Are you not serious about God? What's going on here?"。
And I love Jesus and how he responds, as he does so many times.。
He responds with a question.。
He actually says, "How can the guest of the bridegroom mourn while he is with them?"。
Now, what you have to know is, during that time, if there was a wedding celebration,。
it lasted usually for seven days, so a big party.。
And if you were part of that wedding celebration, you were not allowed to fast,。
because it was a joyous season, and it was not a time for mourning.。
And so Jesus is saying, "I am the bridegroom. I am right now. I have come. I'm here.。
And this is a joyous occasion that I have come."。
And so that's why the disciples, who in this metaphor are the guests, they're not fasting.。
And Jesus is drawing on the prophet Isaiah in chapter 25,。
where he talks about a time when there will be a messianic banquet, a wedding banquet,。
when the kingdom of God is fully established.。
And we get to have table fellowship with God, and that is a joyous occasion.。
And so what Jesus is saying, actually the reason why religious people in that time are fasting。
is because they want God to act.。
They want God to move in their lives, in their nation's lives.。
And he's saying, "Well, I am acting, and I'm here, because Jesus is God with us.。
Something incredible is happening, and so it's time to feast and not time to fast."。
But then he continues.。
He says, "The time will come when the bridegroom will be taken from men, and they will fast."。
So he's talking about our time period.。
Jesus, he died, he rose, he ascended to heaven.。
And he says, "In this time in between when the kingdom of God is inaugurated,。
when the kingdom of God has broken into this world,。
until the time when the kingdom comes in all its fullness, when Jesus comes again,。
his people will fast. They will seek him.。
They will express their longing, their need, their hunger for God,。
for more of God in their lives, for more of God in their city,。
for more of God in their community, for more of God in their brokenness, in their sin."。
So this is what fasting is about.。
It's a cry of a heart. It's actually the cry of the Lord's prayer.。
The second and the third petition, "Your kingdom come.。
Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven."。
Lord, we need you to break into our current situation.。
We need your reign. We need your salvation.。
We need your power to come bear on our current situation.。
That's what fasting is about.。
It's this longing. It's a cry of a heart.。
Fasting is always a sacred, grievous moment.。
Now, what is a sacred, grievous moment?。
There is always something that weighs on our heart because something is broken.。
Something is not right. Something is not the way it ought to be.。
That's a sacred, grievous moment and we feel the weight of it.。
And because of that, we come before God in prayer and in fasting.。
We say, "Lord, will you break into the sacred, grievous moment of myself, of the city,。
and will you act, 'Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven'?"。
You know, that's that cry of our fasting.。
So here's a definition for you.。
"Christian fasting and prayer is the passionate pursuit of the not yet of the kingdom,。
a longing for the establishment of God's reign in our present circumstances."。
And so our fasting is an expression of our sacred, grievous moments。
where we need God to act and move and meet us and meet our community.。
It's where things are not the way they ought to be.。
Where we want God's power to come in and restore things and make them whole。
and bring us peace and shalom into our relationships that are broken with God,。
our relationships that are broken with each other,。
our relationships that even are broken with ourselves,。
and our relationships that are broken with creation.。
And we just long and we cry out to God for God to act and meet us.。
And so the kingdom of God with Jesus coming was inaugurated, or it began.。
It means God's power, His reign has broken in, sin, death has been defeated,。
captives are set free, people are healed.。
So with that we talk about the kingdom is all ready.。
But we also say the kingdom is not fully yet,。
because there still is brokenness, there still is pain.。
And so we wait for the fullness of the kingdom.。
Now there are two things that Christians a lot of times do.。
I should say that we do.。
Two things we a lot of times do.。
The first one is we live in the not yet,。
and we over-emphasize the not yet of the kingdom.。
We pretend as if God doesn't do anything right now,。
and only when we go to heaven or when God brings heaven down to this earth,。
that's when He will act.。
And that's actually quite hopeless.。
And it's not taking serious that Jesus has come and has set captives free。
and is setting captives free, that the kingdom of God is advancing now and here.。
So that's a lot of times we over-emphasize the not yet.。
But then there's a flip side.。
Sometimes there's groups of us that over-emphasize already,。
like as if there's all the fullness of the kingdom, there is no problems.。
You can't even share your problem,。
because then that means you don't have faith.。
And that's not truthful either, because we know there is still brokenness.。
There are still things where we need God to move, to act,。
with His power, by His grace, by His Holy Spirit.。
And so we're meant to live in that tension of the already, but not yet,。
but with hope, with faith, that God is at work,。
that He has not abandoned this world, He has not abandoned you,。
and He is advancing the kingdom and moving it forward.。
And so with that faith, we can come before God with our fasting and with our prayers.。
So fasting is a prophetic declaration of hope。
that whatever might be going on, whatever the circumstances are,。
whatever seems like a lost cause, it is not the final word.。
God is not finished with us yet.。
God is not finished with you yet.。
God is not finished with this city yet.。
He is present and He is at work.。
And so when we fast, it is a prophetic act of faith。
that God is at work, that the final word has not been spoken,。
that things are not over yet,。
because God has a power to do immeasurably more than we can ask or imagine.。
Amen, that's right.。
Yes.。
So I want to ask you this.。
As you step into 2026, where do you need guidance, provision, breakthrough, wisdom?。
What's your sacred, grievous moment?。
What are you going to fast about and especially focus on during this fasting time?。
Is it something in our city?。
Is it something in your own life?。
Where do you need God to break into your not yet moment?。
So think about that.。
He's inviting us to draw near to Him through fasting and through prayer,。
because God loves meeting us, He loves working in our lives.。
And there's something when we come in the surrendered way,。
when we make space for God,。
that God loves coming and working in us and meeting us.。
Now I do have to say one thing in addition to that.。
Sometimes fasting is presented like a vending machine, right?。
I fast, I put, here's a bada tong, you don't put money in here anymore.。
Use your bada tong, your octopus card,。
and you push the machine, out comes the coke,。
or whatever it is that you drink, healthy drinks, I assume you all drink water, right?。
And that's a lot of times how we view fasting.。
I can twist God's arm to give me what I want, but that's not it.。
So actually fasting is surrendering and saying, "Lord, I need you."。
And it's trusting that He will meet us,。
but He will meet us how He wants to meet us.。
That can be His grace is sufficient for us,。
that can be He removes whatever's going on and transforms it and changes it.。
God can meet us how He wants to,。
but we just come surrendered and we believe that God meets us。
and that because we come to Him,。
whatever's going on will be different because He meets us.。
Now, some of you might be wondering,。
"Well, okay, so you talk about fasting and drawing close to God,。
and what is actually fasting like? What do you actually do?"。
Now, biblically, fasting always involves not eating food。
or restraining yourself from food in some way or form.。
And then drinking water and seeking, expressing with that hunger,。
that "Lord, I need you."。
There's the Daniel fast, where Daniel seeks God for 21 days,。
and he doesn't eat any choice foods, doesn't drink any wine,。
and he's longing for God to meet him and to provide for him.。
So there's that.。
And so if you choose to fast from food,。
we recommend that you either skip a meal or that you do a Daniel fast.。
If you fully want to do a hardcore fast,。
please do talk to your medical professional,。
because that is quite serious and it will not be good for everyone.。
But there's another way of fasting,。
and that's setting aside something that crowds out our time with God.。
And I think for me, actually, it's probably harder。
to fast from social media than it is to fast from food.。
Right?。
And so some of us choose to maybe fast from Instagram.。
Maybe that's how you start your day.。
You're scrolling, you wake up, and the first thing is you're doing that.。
You're doing that, or you're looking at YouTube or Netflix or whatever.。
And so you can set that aside.。
You can say, "Lord, I need you more than I need those things.。
I hunger for you more than I need those things,。
and I want to make room for you."。
But here's something really important.。
You know, fasting is not just abstaining from something.。
Sometimes when I hear people talk about fasting,。
especially if it's like the Lent period,。
it's like, "Oh, I'm not going to eat chocolate."。
And it's like, "Great, you're not eating chocolate,。
but how does that bring you closer to God?"。
So fasting isn't just giving up something.。
It's making room for someone.。
It's making room for God.。
And so that means we actually need to create this time。
where we pray and seek God through prayer,。
where we seek God through his word.。
And the way you can do that is, like, if you're skipping a meal,。
you can seek God during that time where you usually would eat that meal.。
If you're not watching social media or scrolling,。
you can use some of that time to seek God in prayer and through his word.。
Now, I want to talk a little bit.。
I did sense for us this year that God does want us to focus more on his word,。
to seek him more through his word.。
So I want to talk a little bit about that.。
And that also applies to our fasting, how we fill that time.。
We don't just abstain, but we fill that time with God.。
So I want to speak into that a little bit.。
Now, the Apostle Paul, he encourages his protege,。
one of his coworkers, Timothy,。
and one way he encourages him is by saying to keep God's word central in his life,。
to not give up on that.。
Second Timothy 3, 14 through 17 says this,。
"But as for you, continue in what you have learned and have firmly believed,。
knowing from whom you learned it and how from childhood you have been acquainted。
with the sacred writings, which are able to make you wise for salvation。
through faith in Christ Jesus.。
All scriptures breathed out by God and profitable for teaching,。
for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness,。
that the man of God may be competent, equipped for every good work."。
So why does Paul encourage Timothy to keep God's word central?。
I want to give two reasons for that.。
There's more in here, but I want to give two.。
The first one is the nature of God's word.。
If you look at verse 16, it talks about breathed out by God.。
That's how it describes that all scripture is breathed out by God.。
That is the Greek word theopneustos,。
and it can also be translated as God breathed or inspired by God.。
It's the only time this word is used in the Bible.。
What this means and what this is referencing is Genesis 2, 7,。
where God breathed life into Adam.。
He's saying this word, "I have breathed my life,"。
whatever that is, you know it, you can fill it in.。
Whatever it is, "I've breathed my life into this word."。
This is not just like reading something else.。
This is a word that is alive and living.。
God speaks to us when we seek him through his word.。
He speaks to us.。
He makes himself known.。
He reveals himself by his word and by his spirit.。
Paul is encouraging Timothy to keep God's word central。
because the word is God breathed.。
It's the same for us.。
We need to get into God's word because the very life of God,。
the breath of God is in this word, and he makes himself known to you.。
He speaks to you through his word.。
Now, the second thing is Paul talks about the purpose of God's word,。
and that's a reason for why keeping God's word central in our lives.。
He gives five reasons, and I'm going to go through them very quickly.。
The first one, the first purpose of God's word is that it makes us,。
in verse 15, wise.。
It makes you wise for salvation.。
It means that God reveals himself to you personally,。
and you can come to know him, and you can come to a saving faith。
through the word of God.。
Now, I've seen this.。
When I spend time with people that are exploring the Christian faith。
and are reading God's word, and God comes alive,。
and they get to see God there being made,。
it makes you wise for salvation because God reveals himself to us.。
That's the first thing.。
But in verse 16, there are four more things that are listed there, basically.。
So all scriptures breathe out by God and profit for teaching, reproof, correction,。
and for training in righteousness.。
So I want to touch on those four things briefly.。
The first one is teaching.。
So God, through his word, by his spirit, he teaches about who he is,。
who we are, what it means to know him, to follow him,。
how we should think about the world.。
So there's like a positive building up.。
And so God does that through his word.。
We get to know God through his word.。
Then he reproofs us.。
So that means if we line up our thinking about God, ourselves, this world,。
with God's word, what it says about ourselves, about him,。
about ourselves, and about this world,。
there is a lot of times something that's different.。
And so God's word reproves us.。
It shows us our error, where we're off, where we're missing the mark.。
But it doesn't only just tell you you're wrong.。
It also corrects us.。
So that's the flip side of reproofing, where it gets us back on the right path,。
where it shows us how should we think about those things.。
And then finally, it talks about that God's word trains us in righteousness。
where it rears us in righteousness, like rearing a child.。
So that means it makes us learn and have more the character of Jesus,。
that we become more like God if we make room for God to speak into our lives.。
And that's one thing that Paul is assuming here.。
There's an assumption of a posture that we bring to God's word.。
And that assumption is that we are surrendered to scripture and not above it.。
That it's not like what I feel like is what I believe and what I do.。
And a lot of times we do that, we treat God's word as a buffet.。
We take the parts that I like, "Oh, this is an inspiring little clip,。
and I like this verse, and I'll take this and put it on a mug,"。
or something like that.。
But then ignoring a lot of other things that God's word says.。
If we come with that sort of posture, if we're not surrendered to scripture,。
we're not giving God's word and the spirit space to shape and mold us.。
It's like getting feedback and not receiving it, and not being transformed.。
Now, when I moved from Hong Kong--。
I've lived here before and then moved away, and now I came back.。
So I moved to the US in 2013 to take over the church from a church planter。
who wanted to go and plant another church.。
Now, in this church they had a culture of feedback,。
and I got feedback on everything.。
I have to say, this was not easy for me.。
I don't know if it's German nature or if it's just human pride.。
Man, it was hard for me to receive feedback.。
But I got feedback on everything, on every single sermon I got feedback on,。
every single event that I led, my leadership, everything.。
And not just by a few people, by leadership,。
but by a cross-section from the church.。
So the university students were giving me feedback,。
the young adults were giving me feedback,。
the families were giving me feedback.。
I got feedback for the rest of my life.。
But I had a choice, right?。
Do I submit to it, and am I open for people to input in my life or not?。
And I chose to submit to it, and it was not always easy.。
It was not always easy because people don't always give perfect feedback, right?。
So I had to learn how to chew the meat and spit out the bones,。
like take what's good and grow from there,。
and then let go of the things that are not good.。
Now, in a similar but also a little bit different way,。
God's Word is perfect, and He loves you perfectly.。
For surrender to Scripture, we let God speak into our lives.。
And because of it, it allows God through His Word and His Spirit。
to shape and mold us and for us to flourish as individuals, as families,。
when we allow Him to do that work in our lives.。
But it's a choice.。
And so during this fasting season, as we're seeking God,。
as we're making space for God, one question is,。
are you surrender to Scripture, or are you above it?。
With what posture do you come before God?。
And if you're above it, you miss out on the work of God in your life.。
You know, that He wants to do it through His Word and His Spirit.。
And that work is also further described in verse 17.。
And it says that--here we go.。
It makes you competent and equips you for every good work.。
You know, when we allow God's Word to shape us,。
it makes you competent and equipped for every good work.。
It allows you to become a blessing to other people.。
Isn't that amazing?。
I think that's amazing that God does work in our lives,。
and it benefits ourselves because what God does is always good.。
But it's not just for ourselves.。
It's actually to be a blessing to other people around us.。
And so as we open ourselves up during fasting,。
it's not just about ourselves.。
Even though we do bring our own needs to Him,。
but God also wants to do work in us as a community。
so that we can be a blessing to those around us.。
Now, what might it look like to actually be surrendered to Scripture?。
So how do you actually do that, like when you read the Bible?。
It's nice to talk about it, but what does that look like?。
How do you do that?。
So there's one practice for me that I found helpful,。
and I call it like paying attention to the highs and lows。
as I prayerfully read Scripture.。
Now, what are the highs and what are the lows?。
Well, the highs are words and verses that stick out to me。
and that resonate deeply in my heart.。
Like, they just pop out to you while you're reading it.。
You're like, "Wow, there's something here."。
And for me, in this passage, the part that stuck out to me。
was that we are made competent and equipped for every good work.。
I was like, "Wow, that's amazing. That is so beautiful."。
That part of God's shaping, forming work is not just for ourselves,。
but it's for the sake of the world.。
So that's what stood out to me.。
But then there are also the lows, and lows doesn't mean it's bad,。
but it's the part that challenges us.。
It's the verses that maybe unsettle you and you're not sitting right.。
And so maybe some of you, as I've been talking about it,。
it's like reproof, correcting, feedback, what?。
I don't want none of that.。
That would be God's word.。
That would be a low where God is challenging you,。
and that is an unsettling word to us.。
But it's always an area where the Spirit of God wants to do a work in our lives,。
and the highs and the lows, where He's doing something.。
And so we can pay attention to that。
and invite God into our lives there and surrender to Him.。
Because being surrendered to Scripture ultimately means being surrendered to God.。
Now, at the beginning we asked the question,。
"How can I draw close to God and experience His presence, His power,。
His love in my life in a greater measure?"。
And as we've gone through the sermon, we looked at,。
"Well, one way that God gives us is to bring through fasting。
our sacred, grievous moments before Him."。
And we say, "Lord, I need You for 2026.。
I need You to powerfully work in this area of my life.。
I need You to break in, because I'm experiencing right now the not yet,。
the brokenness, the hurt, the pain.。
And I need You, Lord."。
So we come with fasting, and we seek God through prayer.。
And then as we make the space, we pray,。
and we draw close to God through His Word,。
where we give God space to speak to us,。
to speak life over you and into your life.。
And God loves doing that,。
and He wants to do this shaping and forming, transforming work in us.。
I want to invite the worship team to come up.。
And here's the thing.。
At the beginning, I talked about how we enter 2026。
and that we might be holding quite different feelings.。
But I'm confident of this,。
that if we walk through 2026 seeking God,。
if we seek Him and make ourselves available to Him。
to speak in our lives, to work in our lives,。
that this will be a year that is much better。
because you made space for God in your life.。
Because God, He loves you.。
He's able and powerful to do immeasurably more than you can ask or imagine.。
His grace is sufficient for you.。
He can turn ashes into beauty,。
mourning into dancing.。
And so let's do this year with God.。
I know I need Him.。
2026, I can't do 2026 without God.。
So I want to challenge you and invite you.。
Let's fast together.。
Let's come before Him。
by carving out space and surrendering and saying,。
"Lord, I need you.。
And I desire for you to powerfully work in our lives."。
And I believe that when we do that,。
that God will meet you.。
And if we think of the end of 2026,。
that there will be testimonies of how God has met us in our 2026。
because we have been seeking, because we have been walking with Him,。
because we have made room for Him to work in our lives.。
Can I get an amen, church?。
I want to invite you all to stand.。
I would love to pray over us.。
If you want to express, yeah, just your heart and your openness for God,。
you can stretch out your hands before you.。
It's just a sign of openness.。
"Lord, I need you in my life in 2026."。
You can just put your hands before.。
So let me pray over us.。
Heavenly Father, thank you that you are Lord over 2026,。
that you hold our lives, our community's lives, this world in your hands.。
Thank you that you love us,。
that you are committed to every single one of us here,。
that you are faithful, that you cannot be unfaithful.。
You are faithful.。
You're perfectly faithful.。
Lord, and you know where everyone's at on this journey,。
how they're stepping into this year.。
Lord, and I pray that as we come, as we seek you through fasting,。
through prayer, through your word, that you will meet us,。
that you will meet your people, that you will pour out your spirit,。
that you give us by your spirit the strength and the grace that we need for 2026.。
And I pray that we will--Lord, I ask that we would get to know you。
in a way that we have not known you before,。
that we will know you in a deeper way,。
that we will have greater faith as we walk through 2026。
because of how you are meeting us this year.。
And so I just pray for a blessing.。
I pray for provision.。
I pray for your mercy and your grace over our lives.。
I pray for community, that you put us together with each other,。
that we don't do this alone,。
that you give us supernatural appointments of new connections。
that we can journey with.。
And so we lift all this up to you and say we love you, Jesus,。
and we pray all this in your name.。
Amen.。
