Yeah, well in a long time ago, I'm not gonna say when, a long time ago when I was 15 years old,。
my sister, my younger sister and I, we flew from Germany to the U.S. Now we had friends there。
that were living there and we visited them in L.A., in Los Angeles. Now during this time while。
I was living in Germany, I was the only Christian in my class. So coming to L.A. was a shock to my。
system because in Los Angeles there was banners, you know, that said "Jesus loves you" and "God。
Jesus" and Bible verses. There was radio stations, Christian radio stations, multiple ones that you。
could choose from and where you could listen to worship. And then the family that we were staying。
with, they took us to a stadium, the Angel Stadium in Anaheim. And there were believers gathered,。
I don't know how many people fit in there, 30-40,000 people worshiping. And for me, this。
was the type of environment I longed for because I had never experienced anything like this.。
And I loved it. But I have to also be honest, one of the reasons why I loved it was not just。
because it was encouraging to me, which it was, but I also loved it because for the first time。
in my life, I didn't stick out for being a Christian. Now isn't it interesting that a lot。
of times we really try to manage our environment. We want our faith to coexist with comfort.。
And so we crave these comfortable places and we try to create a life where there's comfort。
so that our faith, you know, that we can comfortably live it. So we want to follow。
Jesus faithfully, but we also want to be liked by our coworkers. We want to be bold in our faith,。
but we don't want any personal inconveniences and we don't want people to think that we're weird.。
And so we try to have it both ways. We want to be faithful to Jesus,。
but we also want to be comfortable. We don't want to be inconvenienced.。
Now this maybe works for a little while, but we always come to a point where we have to make a。
choice. We either choose comfort over faithfully following Jesus or we choose faithfully following。
Jesus over comfort. And so I want to explore with you today a question in this message.。
And the question is this, is your personal comfort more important to you than faithfully following。
Jesus? Is your personal comfort more important to you than faithfully following Jesus?。
It's a challenging question. Well, today we're going to explore this question. We're continuing。
in our follow me sermon series that we've been going through for the last, we're in the fourth。
week now. The last two weeks we've been looking at the Beatitudes, which are some of Jesus' most。
famous words in the Bible. So Pastor Chapman, he talked to us about the vertical relationship。
between us and God. How when we come before God, we come empty. We have nothing. We have a pasture。
of emptiness and just of need. And we just receive grace. We receive what we don't have。
because we don't have it, but we admit it. And that's the way into the kingdom. That's the way。
into the Christian life. And then Pastor Andrew last week, he continued with the next three。
Beatitudes. And he talked about our horizontal relationships, how we relate to other peoples。
because of this work that Jesus has done in our lives, because it was a new creation that was。
begun in us. And now we're living differently than we lived before because the spirit of God。
lives within us. And so we're people of mercy, of purity. We're people of, we're peacemakers。
because the spirit of God entwines us. And of course we have to learn how to do that.。
It doesn't just automatically happen, but this is the work that God is doing in our lives.。
And Pastor Andrew focuses especially on peacemaking. And today it's interesting.。
We're looking at the last Beatitude. We're looking at one. The others looked at a lot。
of them. I'm looking at one with you. And this, the other ones, one is, you know,。
the posture that we have. That's what Chapman explored, their postures towards God.。
Andrew explored actions that believers do. And today we're going to look at what happens to us。
when we actually do those things. The result of living this kingdom life that Jesus invites us。
into. And so let me take you to Matthew chapter five and verse 10, where it says this,。
"Blessed are those who are persecuted because of righteousness, for theirs is the kingdom.。
Blessed are you when people insult you, persecute you, and falsely say all kinds of evil against。
you because of me. Rejoice and be glad, because great is your reward in heaven,。
for in the same way they persecuted prophets who were before you."。
I mean, these are some difficult words. That's not what we're expecting. Yeah,。
I'm following Jesus. And when I do that faithfully,。
this is the result, or at least part of it. But that's what Jesus is saying.。
And to us, this life of being persecuted, this life of people insulting us and seeing all sorts。
of evil things about us, you know, it doesn't sound like the blessed life. It sounds like the。
opposite, right? So how in the world are we supposed to understand that? Is there something。
that we're missing? Is there something that Jesus wants to speak to us today about this?。
Shift our perspective. I believe so. But if you want to understand this to begin with,。
we have to understand what type of persecution Jesus is talking about. Because it says in verse。
10, "Blessed are those who are persecuted because of righteousness." Now, what does this mean,。
because of righteousness? What does Jesus mean by that? Well, let me explain briefly.。
So in the Beatitudes, the first four, it basically talks about we're empty. We're empty before God,。
and by his grace, you know, we receive forgiveness. By his grace, we receive a new life in Christ.。
There's also something that happens. Instead of our unrighteousness,。
we are given the righteousness of Christ. So we stand in the righteousness of Christ.。
So that's the first thing. That's part of our new identity. We are righteous. We are declared。
righteous because of work that Jesus has done, not because of who we are, but because that's。
what Jesus gives us as a new identity. But then there's a second aspect. Because of this life。
changing new creation work that Jesus has done in our lives, we now can live, and we also learn to。
live as these new creations, as our identity, as children of God. And we learn to be people who,。
instead of just seeking our own advantages and our only concern about ourselves, we learn to。
live lives of self-giving love and of care for others, for neighbor. And so that's the second。
aspect of a righteous life. It's because of what Jesus has done, our identity, but it is also。
because of how we're living. And so that's what Jesus means when he says we are being persecuted。
because of righteousness. It's not for any reason. It's because we belong to him and because we're。
living in a way that reflects his character. But then Jesus further expands on this.。
In verse 11, he says, "Blessed are you when people insult you,。
persecute you, and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me."。
So Jesus is saying that we suffer persecution because we are identified with him, because we。
belong to him. At the Last Supper, when Jesus was talking with his disciples in the gospel of John,。
in John 15, he said the following words to them, starting in verse 18, "If the world hates you,。
keep in mind that it hated me first. If you belong to the world, it would love you as its own.。
As it is, you do not belong to the world, but I have chosen you out of the world.。
That is why the world hates you. Remember what I told you. A servant is not greater。
than his master. If they persecuted me, they will persecute you also."。
So Jesus is telling us to be expectant of that when we live for Jesus, that when we follow him,。
that there will be friction, there will be tension, there will be levels of persecution。
that we experience. But you might wonder, how does this make sense? Like living for Jesus,。
like it means like loving and serving and caring for other people. Why in the world would that。
lead to persecution? Like how should we understand this? Well, let me share you some examples to。
explain this. If you work in a business and your manager asks you to manipulate the numbers。
so that the quarterly financial report looks better,。
and you choose to honor Jesus and not do that because you know it's wrong.。
Well, you're honoring Jesus, that's great, but guess what you're also doing?。
You're exposing someone else for not living a righteous life. You're exposing your colleagues,。
and they're not going to feel great about that. They're not going to like you, right?。
Now, I had this experience once. I was at home and I felt like reading outside.。
I never feel like reading outside. Why in the world would I go read outside?。
But that day, I felt like reading outside. So, I got my book, I walked into the elevator,。
and as soon as I stepped in the elevator, I noticed something weird going on.。
There was a Filipino lady crying and another man with a stern, angry look.。
And so, as I'm riding down this elevator, it was like 20 some floors high, I'm like trying to。
figure out what am I going to do? What am I going to do here? So, we got to the bottom and I said,。
"Hey, are you okay?" And so, as we're walking out, there were seats right there, she told me。
that her employer had just fired her, that she needed to leave, that she was surprised,。
that she was confused. And I mean, she was just crying and in tears. And so, I was caring for。
her and I prayed for her. I showed compassion, I showed care all along while this guy was standing。
behind me, probably still didn't have a smile on his face. So, my compassion and my care。
exposed his lack of compassion and his lack of care. And if you think about your own life,。
like when somebody exposes your sin, your brokenness, how do you react?。
Even as a Christian, I think most of the time you're defensive at first, right? Like, "Oh, no,。
how dare he? How dare she?" You know, whatever. Or if you're the angry type, maybe even get angry,。
confrontational, deny it. So, if we push back like that, when somebody does something what's。
righteous, what is loving, how much more does darkness and evil push back when light shines。
into darkness? How much more? So, being a disciple of Jesus means living a life according to the。
kingdom and kingdom values. And that means that they are opposite to the world. So, when you're。
a follower of Jesus, you are going against the flow. You're walking on the narrow path, not the。
wide path. That means you're going in a different direction and that creates friction and that。
creates tension. Let me give you a statement. Persecution is a result of Jesus' followers。
consistently bringing light into dark places. It is a visible evidence. Can we pull up the。
statement, please? Let me read it again. Persecution is a result of Jesus' followers。
consistently bringing light into dark places. It is the visible evidence of an invisible battle。
where the enemy wars against God's people. So, when you shine light in the darkness,。
there's pushback. But it's not just that people push back, there's also something that often。
happens on the spiritual level. So, I want to share with you an experience that I had,。
actually multiple experiences I had. The first time I served in a church in Hong Kong,。
different church, a long time ago, I was supposed to preach. I was a young man. I was supposed to。
preach. Senior pastor told me I was going to preach. And then suddenly, someone shut it down.。
So, he told me, "Sorry, you can't preach." I'm like, "What? You're the senior pastor? How does。
this work?" The second time, I was meant to preach. So, now, I was a youth pastor. So, we did a youth。
worship service. I preached, the youth did the worship, did creative stuff. It was really cool.。
So, we were rehearsing the day before. We're in this warehouse building where we had a ministry。
center. And this is a day when those metal gates, you know, they're rolled down and you just have。
this little metal door that you have to walk through awkwardly. So, some spiritual fortune。
teller rings the doorbell on the flat where we're practicing in and tells me, "I have a fortune for。
you." And I told him, "No, thank you. Jesus holds my future in his hands. Please leave."。
But just think about that. Like, here I am the second time preaching and I have this weird。
thing happen. How in the world, you know, does somebody even make it to this point? And I have。
to say there was a certain level of intimidation with that, right? So, I did preach the third time.。
So, I'm preaching. This is actually, I guess, my second time preaching.。
Somebody calls in, I kid you not, a bomb threat. Somebody called the executive director of the YMCA。
of Salisbury, had his private number and called in a bomb threat the day I'm preaching. And so,。
then they called the police with sniffing dogs. They went into the venue. They checked everything。
out. I preached in some ballet room, you know, without microphone and everything. Then the second。
service I preached and then people were joking that I called in the bomb threat because I was。
not prepared to preach. But you tell me that when we faithfully follow Jesus that there is no。
opposition, that there is no spiritual opposition because there is. Because when light shines in。
darkness, when God's people stand up and do what God asked them to do, somebody pushes back. But。
we don't have to be intimidated because Jesus defeated Satan, sin, evil on the cross. He。
given the decisive blow and the victory has been won and we share in that victory.。
We stand in that victory. And so, we should expect that when we do what is righteous,。
when we show mercy, when we make peace, when we share the gospel, when we do what honors God,。
that somebody will push back. But we don't have to be afraid. And guess what? When we do those。
things, light breaks in the darkness and there is also rejoicing because people are set free.。
People come to know Jesus. You know, lives are restored. Hope is given where there was no hope.。
And so, we're advancing the kingdom. But it's not just smooth sailing. Can I get an amen, church?。
Come on. There we go. That's better. Thank you.。
Now, I want to... So, we're getting now the picture how Jesus can say, you know, persecuted。
are you because of your righteous... Blessed are those who are persecuted because of their。
righteousness, right? We're getting that now, right? I want to say one more thing.。
Sometimes, Christians say they're being persecuted, you know, for righteousness,。
but really the reason why they're being persecuted is because they're being judgmental, rude,。
and obnoxious towards other people. So, we have to be careful not to call and name everything。
persecution because we need to check ourselves, you know? So, that's awesome. I felt like I。
should say that. I'm not going to say more, but you understand. All right.。
So, now we looked at the first thing, but there's another challenge that actually this passage。
raises and that I want to look with you at verse 11. It says, "Blessed are you when people insult。
you, persecute you, and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me. Rejoice and be glad."。
Now, it is... Again, it doesn't seem like really the blessed life when you're being persecuted,。
when others insult you, when people say all kinds of evil against you,。
but on the top of it, we're told that we're supposed to rejoice and be glad.。
That seems counterintuitive, doesn't it? So, how should we understand that? Well,。
I just want to say two things about that. First, we can rejoice and be glad when we're persecuted。
because of righteousness when we are found faithful. You know, there's deep joy in being。
found faithful and doing what honors Jesus, even if it brings hardship. I have to think of my。
little daughter, Ellie. Right now, a lot of it is about, you know, "Did I listen to daddy or did I。
not listen to daddy?" And sometimes she's very proud for listening to daddy. Of course, sometimes。
she's also proud for not listening to daddy. But I think there's something similar to us when we。
honor Jesus and when we're faithful. You know, there's joy in doing that. There's joy in having。
done what we know is right versus ignoring that. We can see that in the early Christian leaders,。
the apostles in Acts 5. I'm going to summarize the story here. So, Peter and John and other apostles,。
they healed someone. They proclaim the gospel. They're thrown into prison. They're miraculously。
released from prison, so they go right back and preach again the gospel. And then they get。
arrested again. They stand in front of the religious leaders, the Sanhedrin. And there,。
they're told again not to preach. And they say, "We must obey God rather than human beings."。
Can you imagine that, being in that situation and saying that and just being so clear about that?。
And then as a result of that, they get flogged, like beaten, and then they get released. And so,。
I want to read you a verse when they get released. It says this, Acts chapter 5, verse 41.。
"The apostles left the Sanhedrin rejoicing because they had been counted worthy of suffering。
disgrace for the name." And it's talking here about the name of Jesus.。
They viewed themselves as being counted worthy, and they rejoiced that they had been faithful.。
Because if you remember the story earlier, they abandoned Jesus when he himself went to the cross.。
And so, now they're being found faithful, and they rejoice that they get to share in the work of。
Jesus, and that they even get to suffer. Now, I think there's a suffer for Jesus, not just suffer.。
We don't rejoice in suffering. So, I have a statement here as well. "There is no joy in。
being beaten, rejected, or treated unfairly, but there is rejoicing in suffering for being faithful。
for Jesus." You know, big difference. And when we suffer in this way, there's also like a deeper way。
that we commune with Jesus, because we understand his suffering in a greater way. And I've met,。
you know, people that are persecuted Christians and in different settings, and there's just。
something special about them. You know, they know God in a deeper way than I know God and I know。
Jesus. And there's a deeper joy than I know, because they've communed with Jesus, you know,。
in a deeper way. And they just know for certain, and they know how Jesus has met them in these。
difficulties. You know, I'm reminded, I was in Albania on a missions trip in the mountains.。
It was teenage girls. There were a few Christians. Most of them were women and young teenage girls.。
And so, I had prepared as a youth pastor. I'm just challenging message for them,。
you know, to challenge them in their faith. But then as I got to know their story, thank God,。
before I preached, I learned that there was still arranged marriages. And so, this was not a。
Christian context. So, they were married into another religion. And then the experience was。
that their Bibles were taken away and they were not allowed to go to church anymore.。
You know, but to meet these young women and to see their courage and their faith and nonetheless,。
to choose to follow Jesus, despite this being their future, they had no say in this.。
You know, like what challenging message。
was I going to preach to them? It was like they were challenging me with their life,。
with their faithfulness. You know, they put me trying to live a comfortable life to shame.。
And it's not about shaming. So, I don't want to do that. But it was challenging。
and also touching and moving. So, the first reason, you know, why we can rejoice and be glad is。
when we follow Jesus faithfully and we're persecuted, is because we are being found faithful.。
I'm going to give a second reason really quick. The second one is。
that because we know Jesus, we can look at our present circumstances in a different light.。
Because if you're a Christian, you're a kingdom citizen. That means that you're a child of God.。
Your future is secure. Your inheritance is secure. You can live in light of that future,。
in light of that inheritance. So, even if you experience suffering at the moment,。
you know, you know what your future holds. And that's faith, that's supernatural. You know,。
you're not going to conjure up this courage. It's because it's given to you by the Holy Spirit.。
It's because you're meditating on Jesus and his words and his promises. Excuse me, I'm going to。
turn. And then that allows you, you know, to have this hope in the future that is greater。
than your present circumstances and whatever suffering your present circumstances may hold.。
And Jesus says that your reward is great in heaven. Theirs is the kingdom. And so,。
that allows you to have that different perspective. But I want to bring it back to us here,。
to Hong Kong. What about us? You know, what does it mean to follow Jesus faithfully here。
in a context where there is right now no ongoing active persecution like there is in other places。
around the world? I think it's easy to dismiss these words of Jesus as applying to us.。
Because when we think of persecution, the only thing we think of is。
people being martyred for their faith, people being tortured, people being imprisoned.。
And I don't think I can preach a sermon without talking about the persecuted church.。
Out of five Christians in Asia, two of them are experiencing active persecution.。
I'll go, where is there? Five people sitting in a row there. One, two, three, four, five,。
two people persecution for every Christian. Active persecution here in Asia. Open Doors。
has some statistics I'm going to share with you. It's an NGO that works with the persecuted church。
and keeps statistics and records. 4,849 Christians were martyred for their faith.。
388 million Christians around the world suffer high levels of persecution, discrimination because。
of their faith. And over 200,000 Christians were forced to leave their home, go in hiding,。
in country or leave their country because of their faith.。
And these are our brothers and sisters. They are part of the body of Christ.。
And so when one part suffers or mourn, the whole body mourns. And so at the end of the service,。
we're actually going to take some time and pray for them. So I felt like I couldn't talk about。
persecution and not talk about the circumstance and the reality of many people. But I do want。
to bring it now back to the Hong Kong context. Just because we don't experience persecution in。
extreme measures, you know, doesn't mean that we don't experience persecution. Now, while most。
persecution is less dramatic, it's nonetheless impactful on our lives. And I want to give you。
some examples. So maybe you're overlooked in your business, you know, where you work, where you're。
faithfully following Jesus, you're not manipulating numbers, maybe you're not participating in the。
office gossip. And so you're kind of an outsider. You're not liked because of that. And。
you get overlooked for all the promotions, even though you might be the most qualified person。
that should get it. You know, so there's big impact. Maybe you're ignored when it comes to。
receiving rewards. You're a student, you're a university student, and you're open about your。
faith, and there's somebody, a decision maker, that just doesn't like that you're a Christian,。
because you identify with Jesus, and you're not going to get that reward,。
you're not going to get that certificate, you're not going to get that plaque, just because of that.。
Maybe your family rejects you, you try to share the gospel with them, and。
they didn't like that. And so they cut you off. A lot of times when people become new Christians,。
long-term friends, over a period of time, they lose them because they now see you as a religious。
type. So there's a cost. There's some friction, there's some tension to following Jesus. Then,。
as I shared earlier, spiritual attacks, where the enemy pushes against us, wants to discourage us,。
wants to keep us from trusting Jesus, following Jesus. So persecution is real, even if it's。
less dramatic, it has an impact on our lives nonetheless. So you can see we too can experience。
persecution. But I want to ask you a question. If you never experience any friction and tension。
because of your faith, could it be that you have chosen comfort over faithfulness to Jesus?。
Now, I'm not saying that we constantly need to live in this persecution and suffering and。
these things. I don't think that's most of the time how persecution works. A lot of times it's。
more occasional or ebbs and flows. But I do think it's worth asking if there never is any friction。
or tension because of our faith. You know, why is that? Is it because we've created this。
environment? We're just spending time with Christians. I call this the Christian bubble.。
We go to church, we go to Bible study, we go to something else Christian, everything Christian.。
And so we're people who think like us, who agree with us, and that there's no challenge。
to our faith. But guess what? You're also not shining light in the darkness. You're not living。
out the great commission that Jesus has entrusted with of making disciples of all nations.。
You're not participating in the mission of bringing hope and healing to a broken and。
desperate world. And so while we do need Christian community, we're not meant to live exclusively in。
it. You know, we're meant to be out and about in the streets, in the city, in our neighborhoods,。
in our families, wherever God leads you. But then there's another reason, and that's because we're。
too assimilated to the world. You know, instead of reflecting the values of Jesus, actually our life。
speaks world. When you look at it, over New Year's, there was the South China Morning Post。
and social media, there was a lot of posts about a fight between two teenage girls.。
And people were, you know, watching it, they were filming it,。
they were pointing at them, they were laughing. But nobody stepped in, at least not for a very。
long time. And so why is that? I think one, because people are aligned with the values。
of the world. You think it's funny, something that actually should break our heart. You know, sometimes。
we've become this way, where we think something's funny, that really, if you're a Jesus follower,。
you shouldn't think it's funny. And then the second aspect is that it is easier to hide in the crowd。
than to stick out and to do what's actually hard, and to go against the status quo,。
to try to make peace, to try to protect someone, to try to。
follow Jesus. And so we hide in the crowd.。
So I want to invite the worship team to come up.。
And there was an invitation, you know, as I was preparing, there actually was a lot of wrestling。
with how do you, you know, how should I talk about this? And what I sense God wanted to challenge us。
with is this, what I have here is, Jesus is calling you today out of your personal comfort.。
You know, whether that's the comfort of being with a bunch of Christians all the time,。
or whether that's like hiding in the crowd and being assimilated to the world and just。
trying to create yourself a comfortable, non-friction life. And he's inviting you。
and inviting us as a community into a greater faithfulness of doing the works of Jesus,。
of shining light into darkness, of bringing hope and bringing healing and bringing salvation。
to world, to people, to lives that desperately need it. Yes, there's going to be pushback,。
but so what? Jesus is with us, you know, and he wants to change lives.。
He wants to advance the kingdom through his people, through his church. And I was like,。
I was dreaming, what if this year, you know, all of us take a step forward in the faithfulness to。
Jesus, that we decide to let go of, you know, these areas where we've chosen comfort over following Jesus?。
What is God going to do when his church stands up and doesn't just seek to live comfortable。
lives where there's no friction and no tension with the world? Now, us actually doing that is。
always the work of the Spirit, of the Holy Spirit. We cannot conjure up our own strength,。
but we can come to Jesus and we can tell him, "Jesus,。
you know, I know I haven't been as faithful as I want to be.。
Forgive me, and will you give me the grace and strength and by your Spirit, by your power to live。
faithfully? Show me how to do it. Help me to not be discouraged when I fail so I can keep going."。
So what I want to do right now is I just actually want to give you a little space。
just for you to talk with Jesus. And I, you know, I don't know where you are on this journey. Maybe。
you're suffering from persecution, you know, it's always possible, then talk to Jesus about that.。
So I'm going to give a minute space, you know, for you just to commune and talk to him in prayer,。
and then I'll pray for us and also pray for the persecuted church. All right, let's do this church.。
Let's take some time to pray. Jesus, I thank you so much that, you know, you didn't just。
call us to live this righteous life, this faithful life, this life of love, of self-giving love, but。
you showed us how to do it. You lived it,。
and you suffered, but you did it. Nonetheless, rejoice him because you know what it was for.。
And Jesus, you know, each and one of our lives where we have chosen comfort over faithfully。
following you, and maybe we hadn't even thought about it, Lord. Maybe today this just kind of。
came up like, "Oh yeah, I kind of do that." And so, Lord, we just surrender that to you.。
Say, "Jesus, we're sorry, and will you forgive us, and will you fill us now with your Holy Spirit,。
and will you help us to live lives that honor you, where your love, your blessing flows through us。
into a dark and a hurting world, where your light shines so that people, you know, come to know your。
love, come to know you, that your kingdom is advanced." Lord, we never do that over one。
strength. It's always by your grace. It's always by your power. It's the church and the power of。
the Holy Spirit. And so, we pray, "Holy Spirit, come when you move in power among us," because。
it's always your work. And we say, "We need you." We can't do this out of our own strength.。
We're here. We're ready, Lord. Thank you, Jesus. And Jesus, we also lift up our brothers and。
sisters around the world here in Asia and all other continents that are suffering because they。
are identifying with you, because they belong to you, that are being imprisoned, that are being。
beaten, that are being discriminated against. And Jesus, will you strengthen your people right now?。
Will you pour your Spirit over them and encourage them and give them that supernatural joy。
that you give where they can rejoice and be glad because they belong to you, because they know you.。
But Lord, we also pray for deliverance. We pray that you deliver our brothers and sisters from。
persecution, that you release them from these circumstances, that you bring justice to injustice.。
And Lord, and so we put our hope, we put our faith in you, and we pray all this in your。
precious name, Jesus. And the church says, "Amen." Church, let's worship.。
