Why don't you have a seat?。
Why should you do so?。
Turn around and say hi to someone。
that you did not meet beforehand.。
Say hi, who are you?。
It's very nice to meet you.。
Give me your name.。
Please say hi, be friendly.。
All right.。
Well, I'm super excited that we get to continue。
our Philippian series today.。
Okay, that's enough friendliness for one day, thank you.。
Just kidding.。
We're getting to continue our Philippian series。
in Alternative Society.。
If you've been here at the Vine for the last number of weeks。
you'll know that we're in a series。
where we're looking at Paul's vision。
for the local community of church.。
His vision for how the church could shine。
in the community around them.。
And this is exactly the topic that we're looking at today.。
I'm really grateful that we got Sidney Yip,。
chairman of our eldership with us today,。
friend of many in this church,。
someone who served this church for many years。
with Vivian and their family.。
Why don't you stretch out your hands with me。
and I'm gonna pray for Sidney.。
Father, we thank you for Sidney and Vivian.。
We thank you for their leadership,。
their partnership together in marriage.。
Lord, we thank you for Sidney's passion。
for your word, his heart.。
Lord, we thank you for the skills that you've given him。
in the marketplace as a surgeon, a doctor.。
And Lord, as he pours out his heart towards us today。
in this area of holiness,。
Lord, we come to you afresh with that vision of the hill。
that we are ascending by you.。
And Lord, we pray for this pure and blameless spirit。
to be in us and through us.。
We pray that we would be able to live, Lord,。
as the people of God in the way that you called us to live.。
So would you open this word to us, Lord, through Sidney.。
Would our hearts be fertile soil。
for the things that you want to say to us today?。
And God, we thank you for this。
and we give you praise in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says amen.。
- Amen.。
Well, thank you, Andrew.。
Many years back while I was still working in Singapore,。
I got an invitation to speak。
in a medical conference here in Hong Kong.。
So the organizers were very generous.。
They put me up in a six-star hotel.。
Well, whatever it means.。
That was well before this vacation becomes a phenomenon.。
But interestingly, right after that visit to Hong Kong,。
I was to fly out to Indonesia。
to join a medical mission team.。
So that was right after the double jeopardy。
of tsunami and earthquake。
in the outskirt Indonesian island.。
So for all those 10 days,。
we were staying out in all-stars hotels.。
Well, by all-stars, we are really tenting out。
because after the earthquake,。
we don't dare to stay in-house.。
But that sleeping out in the open。
allowed us the perfect occasion。
to glaze upon the stars。
in mere darkness in the countryside.。
So that would help us recall。
the painting by Vincent van Gogh, Starry Night,。
well, that was told to be the easiest,。
the comprehensible pictures of his making.。
Anyway, actually, it's more than 2,000 years ago,。
Paul had already in mind about morning stars that shine.。
In Philippians chapter two, it's said,。
so that you may become blameless and pure,。
children of God, without fault,。
in a crooked and twisted generation,。
that you will shine among them like stars in the sky.。
So it remains for us to ponder。
what shining morning stars really means。
as we continue our Alternative Society series,。
a new way of living,。
paying particular attention to holiness.。
Well, this study will demand。
more than your usual attention, is that okay?。
Okay, therefore, my dear friends,。
as you have always obeyed,。
not only in my presence, but also in my absence,。
continue to work out your salvation。
with fear and trembling.。
For it is God who works in you。
to will and to act in order to fulfill his good purpose.。
Therefore, do everything without grumbling or arguing,。
so that you may become blameless and pure,。
children of God, without fault,。
in a crooked and twisted generation.。
Then you will shine among them like stars in the sky,。
as you hold firmly to the word of life.。
So in a nutshell, the Philippians were to devote themselves。
to practical Christianity, working out their salvation.。
Then they were to be characterized。
by positive steadfastness,。
never scramble to complaining or grumbling.。
So in short, God is a holy God.。
He chooses for himself a people。
and confer holiness to his people.。
And we, the holy people, are to live our holy lives.。
So for practical Christianity,。
it is for us to work out our salvation。
with fear and trembling,。
because it is God who works in us.。
Now last, we are caught up with the theological debate。
between work and salvation.。
So for today, it's suffix to understand。
that the dynamics of salvation is already, not yet.。
Using a word of play,。
Paul said that they were to work out because God works in.。
God works in them and provide them the motivation。
and the ability to do his good pleasure.。
Now this passage actually recalls。
the Philippians 1 passage,。
where Paul expressed his confidence in them。
because what God has begun, a good work,。
he would bring it to completion.。
How then is it best for us to understand fear and trembling?。
That brings us to the original notion。
of who our holy God is,。
and that would necessitate a quick look。
at the Old Testament.。
Now holiness in the Hebrew Bible。
is intrinsically connected to God, his very being.。
God is the holy one par excellence,。
with the exclusive power to confer holiness unto others.。
Not only is God the source of holiness,。
but human bodies like us will require holiness。
in order to be in proximity to the deity.。
Now we often think of getting prepared。
as the Israelites through the sacrificial system,。
gaining access to the most high.。
So for illustration,。
many of you are aware that I practice surgery.。
So how we prepare to gain access to the operating room,。
the holy place, bears some resemblance.。
To go into the operating theater,。
we need to get changed into necessary gears,。
masks, hair cover, scrubs, and boots.。
But this is only the beginning.。
To get into the operating room and be involved in surgery,。
we actually need to go through another round of cleansing.。
We have to scrub for at least three minutes。
using antiseptic lotions.。
That's why Vivian always says,。
"Well, my hands are very smooth."。
(audience laughs)。
Well, then we have to put on sterile gongs and gloves.。
In fact, it is advisable to use double gloves.。
Now this is a mutual protection。
for patients and for ourselves.。
Back in the days of SARS, or even in this COVID season,。
gaining access to patients' airways。
as in giving anesthesia before surgery。
is actually considered high-risk procedures。
for the medical personnel.。
In fact, years back, we lost quite a few colleagues。
while they are doing intubation.。
We have to gong up using higher standard N95 mask,。
and also what we call astronauts' OT costumes.。
Now even with all those,。
we really come forth in fear and trembling,。
as we are never 100% sure that we are prepared。
and fortness to face the dire consequence。
of not being good enough.。
With that in mind, it may be easier for us to understand。
why the Israelites, as they come before God, Yahweh,。
in the Mount Sinai,。
they would rather that Moses approach God on their behalf.。
Now however, while much emphasis was laid。
on maintaining cleanliness by the holiness code。
to come before God,。
the status of holiness was actually conferred。
in the first place.。
In Exodus, the Israelites were summoned。
into a special relationship with God,。
described by three phrases,。
a special possession amongst all peoples,。
a kingdom of priests, and a holy nation.。
Israel is to be God's own people,。
set apart from other nations for its own service,。
just as priests were set apart。
and marked by a quality of life in alignment。
with the holiness of the covenant with God.。
Israel is holy because she is called by God。
as its own people.。
However, holiness should not be narrowly understood。
as separation or just setting apart.。
Israelites' holiness has a communal implication.。
It is to be manifested in social relationships。
with strangers, with the poor,。
and with the surrounding nations.。
In their shared living,。
Israel is called to model the life of the Godhead,。
to live out the love, the goodness, and justice of God。
for the nations to see and be drawn to.。
Now fast forward to the New Testament era.。
It is helpful to recall the words of Hebrews.。
Let us then approach God's throne of grace with confidence。
so that we may receive mercy and grace。
to help us in times of need,。
that we may come before a holy God。
at any time of our needs.。
It's really made possible by the death and resurrection。
of our Lord Jesus Christ.。
We'll have a bit more of elaboration next week on this.。
Now a New Testament approach to understanding,。
approaching the holy God,。
is in fact best illustrated in the last prayer.。
This then is how you should pray,。
our Father in heaven, may your holy name be honored.。
As a father of two grown up adults in their late 20s,。
I would not like them to come to me in fear and trembling.。
Nor I expect them to come in perfection.。
I just treasure that they come to me。
as often as they desire.。
The interesting paradox we have。
for modern day believers is rather,。
now that we can come forth to a heavenly father。
at any time without fear,。
do we really come to him as often as he desires?。
So what is Paul's thought on holiness。
as reflected in the Philippians?。
It might be helpful to reconnect today's passage。
to the prayer in chapter one,。
as well as the drive to perfection,。
as would be mentioned in chapter three.。
Philippians one, and this is my prayer,。
that your love may abound more and more。
in knowledge and depth of insight,。
so that you may be able to discern what is best。
in order that you may be pure and blameless。
until the day of Christ,。
filled with the fruits of righteousness.。
As one examines the prayer, it become evident。
that Paul is concerned with the holiness of the Philippians.。
Paul expect them to live a holy life in the presence,。
even as they anticipate the day of Christ.。
Thus holiness is the moral character of our life,。
here and now, that will prepare us to stand the test。
of that great day, whenever it come.。
Towards chapter three, the emphasis of holiness,。
of it being a process,。
is best illustrated by Paul's own commitment.。
Not that I've already obtained this, or am already perfect,。
but I press on to make it my own,。
because Christ Jesus has made me his own.。
So a quick summary of what we have。
on Paul's thinking of holiness.。
Number one, Paul's call for holiness。
is greatly influenced by his outlook for the future,。
namely the second coming of Jesus Christ.。
Second, the holiness that Paul calls his church。
is both corporate and personal.。
We are to shine together as a community.。
And third, the word perfection reminds us。
that we maintain the tension which exists in the words,。
to make perfect, as a verb, and perfect as an adjective.。
Well, actually, to put it in very simple terms,。
it is work in progress.。
Now, let's come back to our anchor verses in chapter two,。
where Paul's understanding of holiness。
is primarily communal.。
We become related to Christ singly,。
but we cannot live in Christ as isolated individuals.。
God is not just making individuals holy,。
which he certainly does,。
but he's making a people holy.。
How about positive steadfastness?。
Philippians 2 remind us,。
"To do all things without grumbling or questioning,。
that you may be blameless and innocent,。
children of God without blemish,。
in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation."。
Paul uses the language in the Psalms of Moses。
that stands near the end of Deuteronomy,。
that describes the unfaithfulness。
of a wicked generation of Israelites。
who were brought out of Egypt.。
They grumble as a sign of their mistrust。
in the goodness of God.。
Now, Paul believes that the Philippians。
were to stand in continuity of the ancient call of God.。
Paul's exhortation on holiness to the Philippians。
is that they are to live as God's holy people。
in a dark world that Paul describes in its darkest terms。
as crooked and perverse.。
If the Philippians can succeed in fulfilling this vocation,。
they will shine as stars in the universe。
as they hold on to the word of life.。
This is the vocation that according to Isaiah,。
Israel was supposed to carry,。
to be the light amongst the Gentiles,。
so that the salvation of God。
might be brought to the ends of the earth.。
Paul's exhortation presents holiness。
both in negative and positive terms.。
In a negative sense, Paul called upon the Philippians。
to shy from grumbling and questioning.。
So, do not grumble.。
Now, in my own workplace context,。
different development strategies。
eventually precipitates the breakdown。
of a very longstanding partnership in the company.。
That we have different financial goals。
as a business entity is entirely understandable.。
What was very painful and hurtful。
was the grumbles and complaints even before we parted ways,。
and it had a tremendous impact, even on myself.。
I'm hoping that as a church body,。
we can do better than in a secular setting.。
In fact, Paul employs three terms。
to describe the stage of readiness。
in which the believers in Philippi are to keep themselves.。
The first, blame them.。
It actually appeared also in Genesis,。
whereby God commanded Abraham。
to walk before him and be blameless.。
And that was exactly the idea that was echoed in Psalm.。
Who may ascend to the holy mountains?。
Those who are pure in heart and clean in hands.。
The second term, ignorance, is found in Matthew.。
Jesus say, I'm sending you out like sheep amongst wolves.。
Therefore, be as shrewd as snakes, and be ignocent as doves.。
It is translated as ignorance with ethical overtones.。
Christ's followers are to be characterized。
by a delicate balance of prudence and purity.。
The third term, to be without blamish,。
is actually a very often Old Testament context of worship,。
whereby without blamish is applied to animals。
that were meant for sacrifice.。
However, it was also used。
to describe the person's moral state.。
So his call to the Philippians is really to be blameless,。
innocent, and without blamish.。
He's calling for moral transformation。
in every aspect of the believer's life.。
It is a life that should be beyond reproach。
in every area.。
The Philippian Christians are to present themselves。
as holy and acceptable sacrifice to God.。
The result of their living is that they will shine as light.。
And yet, even with their imperfections,。
they could progress to become the light of the world。
to those in darkness.。
So what does it mean to shine as morning star。
in our times?。
I will name three areas that I learned。
from my seminary professor, teaching faith and work.。
So he brought up a version of three Cs in the workplace,。
namely, competence, care, and character.。
It is not difficult to understand competence.。
Do with excellence.。
Do it and do it well, period.。
Now, however, just doing well。
without grumbling and complaining.。
Grumbling may not have much bearing。
on your competence in a strict sense,。
but your reputation and that of Christ would be at stake.。
On the other hand, while we work diligently,。
Jesus will always open a door。
for us to care for others in the workplace.。
Our practice recently moved to a newer,。
yet more compact venue, where after all,。
rental in central is prohibitively high,。
in a sense that it's also a reflection。
of the very distorted economic system。
in the deprived generation.。
But my honest confession is that as the company。
pushes to cut cost for enhanced efficiency,。
we are driving our employees to the brink of breakdown.。
Some of my staff lamented that they are losing。
the joy of serving.。
So while my initial thought was to invite。
my fellow elders to come around me。
to bless me and my business,。
in preparation that morning, I had a restaurant prompting。
that the office blessing should be about。
my colleagues and my staff.。
So the few of us who gathered that morning,。
we took time to invite my staff。
to pray for them individually.。
Really, in those weeks of tremendous stress。
from the fiscal move, the adjustments to new workflow,。
and new management changes,。
they yearned for comfort and strength,。
and are there to believe that God's light shone on them。
and illuminated their paths.。
In fact, at the opportune time,。
we shall need to be bold enough。
to speak on behalf of others.。
I'm a minority shareholder in my company,。
but I felt compelled to speak to the management。
regarding improvement of the staff's welfare.。
And I'm glad to be reassured by them。
that they are making every effort。
to rectify the situation, and that they care.。
So be proactive.。
I challenge you to come forth,。
to offer prayers for your staff,。
for your peers, and for your boss.。
Why not?。
The other day, I was somewhat stressed out。
in preparation for a fairly difficult surgery.。
Lo and behold, I received a text from my patient's daughter.。
She encouraged me that she prayed for me,。
believing that I shall be a blessing to her father.。
She became my morning star, as she cared.。
But most of all, Paul is demanding our character.。
The key for character remains fearing in reference to God.。
By this, I mean we honor him in all our areas of living,。
working, and being.。
As a surgeon who had practiced for more than 30 years,。
I confess that actually I'm fearful many a times.。
While the irony is some measured fear turned out。
to be helpful for us to stay prudent for complicated,。
as much as for mundane surgeries.。
The fear is not so much that there may be shortcomings。
of our own making or complications,。
even sometimes undesirable outcomes, including mortality,。
beyond our control or understanding.。
The reference is that we acknowledge,。
ultimately, God is sovereign.。
He is the healer.。
We are just the instruments to care.。
We are the morning stars that reflect his glory.。
But as stars, we can also shine together as a body.。
I mentioned about the medical mission team。
for the earthquake relief,。
whereby we serve different communities。
in the outskirts Indonesian island.。
We were in this shining for Christ。
for an otherwise limited assassination,。
even when the earth was literally shaken.。
Here in Hong Kong,。
we are coming across a major shaking ourselves.。
Richard Napole wrote a very important theological piece。
reflecting on Christ and culture.。
He put two extreme ends.。
On the one end is Christ entirely against culture.。
On the other end is Christ entirely for culture.。
But he put forth a different way,。
Christ, or rather Christians,。
in our interaction with the culture,。
we can actually transform culture,。
and that may be the way out.。
That is, we can take culture's fallenness seriously,。
but continue to will and to act。
hopes for conversion within it.。
While some of us may regard this。
as a gloriously impossible mission,。
but we may also argue that at the time of Paul's writing,。
the early Christian churches,。
including the Philippian church,。
they learned and practiced humility,。
self-sacrifice, joy, care for others,。
and most of all, fear of Jesus Christ as the Lord,。
instead of Caesar as the Lord.。
Indeed, they shine and subverted the culture。
where they lived as an alternative society.。
In this season, our generation may also choose。
to live out differently,。
to act out the fear and reference to our true God,。
regardless of the external society pressures.。
For instance, the society may not fully appreciate。
the work of manual labors, including street cleaners,。
who actually serve us so well,。
especially in this COVID season.。
Yet, the volunteers from STOB,。
under the branches of hope, they shine.。
They reach out to the street cleaners in our neighborhood.。
They prepare simple lunch boxes,。
but with a lot of love, care, and respect.。
And for all you know, it is because our fellow brothers。
and sisters from the Arise community。
who are able to speak their languages, they join us,。
so that this church can reach out。
to very different nationalities.。
So in conclusion, may God find our response。
of fear and reference entirely appropriate.。
We are to fear Him in the sense。
that we recognize His holiness,。
and the respect and honor due Him,。
as His heart yearns for us.。
We can always approach Him,。
His throne of grace, with confidence,。
so that we may receive mercy and grace。
to help us in our times of need.。
We shall then shine as we meet the need of others.。
In fact, most importantly,。
we shall bring others to our holy God, even as we shine.。
(silence)。
Can I invite the worship team to come and join us?。
I'll share the story of one of my patients.。
She actually, well, she literally come。
with fear and trembling.。
Honestly, more before, because she was overwhelmed。
by her medical condition.。
Yet along the way, as many come around to support her,。
to pray with her, she became much better prepared。
to proceed.。
She was learning to fear God as the sovereign,。
as well as the good God, the Holy One.。
She made an impressive and speedy recovery,。
to the extent that she quickly volunteered to serve.。
In fact, she served in our children ministry。
for the underprivileged just this summer vacation.。
She served with much joy and became one。
of the most beloved volunteers.。
She is shining in her own right,。
as one of the morning stars,。
alongside with many other stars in our midst.。
So each one of us here, we can look up the sky。
and envisage that we can also shine alongside many others。
from this congregation as morning stars.。
Can I invite all of us to stand together as we worship,。
as a symbolic act, I would suggest that you bring out。
your handphone, you switch on your torch mode,。
and continue to shine as morning stars,。
even as we worship together.。
(soft music)。
