But we also have sweatshirts and t-shirts and bracelets and things like that,。
also sporting my little branches of Hope Colors bracelet,。
but we've got other stuff as well.。
But beyond the bits and bobs that you can support us with,。
really what we're really hoping for is for people。
to walk alongside us in the long-term.。
We really encourage you to scan the QR code, come check us out.。
There's different volunteering opportunities,。
especially when we have events and initiatives.。
Summer school is a great example.。
We always need volunteers to run summer school.。
We've got a football tournament coming up at the end of October,。
which needs hundreds of volunteers.。
So, please do consider supporting us with your time and your effort.。
But we also have a number of financial support initiatives。
with which we are providing continuous support to the community on a monthly basis.。
So, if it's on your heart, we would also love for you to。
prayerfully consider becoming a monthly donor.。
There's a number of initiatives that you can support.。
One of them is for accommodation and utility support.。
There's education support.。
There's a number of different ways that you can support us on a monthly basis.。
And honestly, it doesn't matter how much or how little you want to give.。
I mean, give from where your heart is at.。
But what I can guarantee you is that that goes straight to the community.。
So, really a great way of walking alongside of them.。
Anyway, I've taken enough of your time.。
Sorry?。
It doesn't work. Oh, my goodness.。
You have a bunch of QR codes over here.。
So, do come and check us out afterwards at the booth.。
See, this was just a ploy, right?。
To get you to come to the booth and scan us.。
Marketing 101, you know.。
But yeah, no, sorry for that.。
But do come check us out.。
Otherwise, we're very easy to find.。
You can just go to branchesofhope.org.hk to get our website.。
We're also on Instagram, Facebook, all the regular social.。
So, you know, do come check us out.。
And thank you again for giving us this platform.。
Appreciate it.。
[ Applause ]。
Sorry, just one thing I forgot.。
I've been holding it the whole time.。
This is our prayer guide that we've brought out just for Branch of Hope Sunday in Wan Chai.。
This is actually really, really exciting because it allows you to, you know,。
in addition to these things, really walk alongside the community in prayer, right?。
It's a six-week prayer guide.。
We have three prayers for each of those weeks.。
Each week has a different theme, a different topic.。
So if you want to really explore this topic, if you want to really, you know,。
offer your prayers for the communities that we serve, I really encourage you to pick。
up one of these guys.。
You can make a little donation if you like for the prayer guide booklet.。
And, you know, this is a great resource for community groups or even by yourself to go through.。
So, yeah, just check these guys out.。
Thank you.。
- Thank you, Alex.。
Now, Branches of Hope is one of the mission organizations our church partners with.。
But the other mission organization that we partner with is YWAM Shanti,。
and they're needing our help in their back-to-school drive.。
Now, you can help out in a couple of ways.。
One of the ways is that there are a list of items that you see on the screen right now.。
Those are items that they need.。
So if you have any of these items at home and you would love...that are in good quality,。
and you would love to share with kids who may need them, these are some of the items。
that you can share.。
The other thing that you can do to help with this event is you can act as a volunteer.。
So this back-to-school drive happens on August the 27th from 10 to 5.。
So how this works is there will be different time slots where you can serve that day,。
and you can also help distribute some of these items that are donated to kids who。
need it for their school.。
So if you want to sign up, you can contact Rebecca with that number on the screen right。
now, and you can do that to volunteer or to donate your items there.。
So last year, I had the opportunity to serve at this day, and I thought it was a great。
way to kind of celebrate coming back from school and also to distribute some of these。
things to kids who need these things.。
Sound good?。
Good.。
Now, moving on to more giving, we also want to move into a time of worship with our giving。
of our finances and our resources.。
So there are now buckets that are going around the room that you may give physically, and。
there are also digital ways that you may give appearing on the screen behind me right now.。
We want to thank you for partnering with us and for your generosity for this church.。
And yeah, worship is also our way of declaring that we trust in Jesus over our trust in our。
own resources.。
So when the buckets are passed around, I will be back up here to pray for the offering.。
Wonderful.。
Let us pray for the offering.。
Father, you have blessed us with much financial blessings, relational blessings, spiritual。
blessings.。
Lord, we thank you for these things.。
And Jesus, as you have given to us abundantly, we want to humbly bring these back to you。
today.。
You give us out of the overflow of your blessings, and Jesus may we also give out of the overflow。
of our blessings that we have received from you so that we may in turn bless others as。
well for the further rents of your kingdom here on earth as it is in heaven.。
And we thank you, Jesus.。
We pray this in your name.。
Amen.。
Great.。
Wonderful.。
Now, right now, I'd like to invite up Pastor Tim for the final time before he goes up for。
his sabbatical.。
That's welcome, Pastor Tim.。
You've heard of practice what you preach, and last time Tim was here, he preached on。
rest.。
And so, yeah, he's about to go on a bit of a rest.。
Hey, Tim?。
Yeah, so why don't we all stretch our hands and pray for Tim as he closes this sermon。
series, Stewarding Our Lives.。
Father, we are grateful for Tim.。
We're grateful for all the hard work, all the things that he puts into this church,。
all the things that, yeah, we may not notice as your normal person, but Lord, you see everything。
that Tim does, you see everything that he has placed upon this church, and therefore。
now, Jesus, I pray that as he delivers this message, as he closes this series of Stewarding。
Our Lives, Lord, that he may go off into just deep rest with you, Jesus, that he can meet。
you with you face to face in this rest, Lord, and that as he delivers this final message,。
it's been an important series for many of us as we look into how work is our worship。
to you.。
And Lord, Jesus, I pray that today as we continue to look into this, Lord, may our。
work truly be glorifying to you as a form of our worship to you, Jesus.。
I pray this in your name, Jesus.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Thank you, Benedict.。
Let's give Benedict a hand.。
Yeah.。
All right.。
Well, as Benedict says, final message in the Stewarding Our Lives series, and I'm wondering,。
I don't know about you, but if you've been in church around for a while, it is likely,。
it is possible that you've heard of this concept of bringing glory to God through your work.。
So I'm just kind of curious who has heard somebody talk about that.。
All right.。
So some people, not everyone.。
Okay.。
Good to know.。
Now, for me, when I heard this the first time, or as I've heard this a few times in church,。
because I was thinking about my work experience, I wasn't quite sure how my work and how, like。
living for God's glory, how that fits together.。
Now, I have to say this was also pre-pastor.。
Okay.。
But what I really was struggling, like, okay, here's this, I work, but how does it really。
relate to bringing God glory?。
Like, you know, how do these two fit together?。
Because to me, they don't seem like they fit together.。
So for example, there was a season where I was a loan officer.。
Yes, Mr. Officer.。
I really am excited about that name, that title.。
And so what I had to do in that job was, well, for one, sell mortgages to people, but that。
involved sitting 1.5 hours on average on the phone, waiting for a phone call to come in.。
Waiting for a warm lead to come in.。
Now, a warm lead is different than cold calling.。
Basically what it involves is somebody already has done the cold calling, and then you get。
the person they found that is looking for a mortgage, that wants to get qualified to。
purchase a home in X amount of price.。
And so waiting for 1.5 hours, like how does that connect with giving glory to God through。
my work?。
Now perhaps when you think about your job, you're also wondering about some of the things。
that you do and how they might connect.。
Maybe it's not waiting for 1.5 hours for a phone call like it was for me.。
But maybe as a parent, you're like, okay, it's 8 a.m. in the morning.。
This is the third time I'm changing my children's clothes.。
Where's the glorifying God in that?。
Or maybe you have another pointless meeting that is on your agenda for the day.。
And you're like, oh, my gosh, here we go again.。
There's this famous book, it's called Death by Meeting.。
Has anyone ever heard of that?。
Has anyone ever felt that?。
I think we felt that, right?。
I felt that for sure.。
And then it might be maybe there's also this complicated person at work that's just making。
life really difficult.。
And so when you think about your work, it's like, where is God in this work?。
And again, how does this concept of glorifying God and work, how does that all fit together?。
Now today in this message, I want to explore with you how we can give God glory through。
our everyday work.。
And I want to explore with you what does that look like?。
How do you actually do that?。
So that's what we're going to unpack in this last message from the sermon series.。
Now I hope that the stewarding our life sermon series has been helpful for you.。
So according to Benedict, it's been helpful for him.。
So that's good.。
But really, our heart has been as we go through these different topics of our work, our calling,。
our struggles with work, idolatry in work, restorative justice through work, rest, that。
this one life that God has given us, that we can more intentionally, more faithfully。
live that out and pursue that as followers of Jesus.。
And so that's been my prayer and my hope for you.。
That this doesn't stop with us talking about it here, but that God is taking you deeper。
into his purposes for you in your everyday life.。
Amen?。
Amen.。
All right.。
So we are today in the book of first Corinthians.。
Today the context is a little bit complicated, so I need a little bit time to set it up for。
you.。
Okay.。
So Paul wrote a letter, the apostle Paul wrote a letter to the Corinthian church.。
He planted the church and he received the letter while not being in Corinth anymore.。
And in that letter, the Corinthians, he asked Paul questions that he then in part addresses。
through the letter of first Corinthians.。
And so one of those questions has to do with food offered to idols.。
So we have to take a step back and think about like, why did the Corinthians ask a question。
about food offered to idols?。
Well, they lived in a polytheistic environment.。
They lived in a culture, in a town where idol worship was rampant.。
And if you think about their lives, their family life, their social life, all of that。
- their work life as well - involved food.。
But they're also the first generation of Christians, so they don't have Christians who have gone。
before them to give them guidance on what to do.。
And they're actually disagreeing amongst each other on how to think about this.。
And so Paul pastorally speaks into that, and it's actually for a very prolonged time because。
it starts in chapter 8 verse 1 and runs all the way to chapter 11 verse 1.。
Let me read all of it.。
No, I'm just kidding.。
Not going to read that much.。
But what I want to do is I want to take you to the ending of his argument, where he talks。
about what it means to follow Jesus in this area of your life.。
But at the end of the argument, he also expands it and widens it where it actually applies。
to more.。
So let's go to 1 Corinthians chapter 10, starting verse 31, and it says this.。
So whether you eat or drink or whatever you do, do it all for the glory of God.。
Do not cause anyone to stumble, whether Jews, Greeks, or the church of God, even as I try。
to please everyone in every way.。
For I'm not seeking my own good, but the good of many so that they may be saved.。
Follow my example as I follow the example of Christ.。
So let me unpack this for us.。
So first we see in verse 31 that Paul talks about, so whatever you eat or drink or whatever。
you do, do it all for the glory of God.。
Now eating and drinking is like the most mundane everyday thing, you know, for most of us,。
where it's part of our everyday life.。
And so Paul is talking about everyday life things, but then he expands it, he even says,。
or whatever you do, do it all for the glory of God.。
So that means that all our big moments in our day, all our small moments in our day,。
everything extraordinary in our day, everything very seemingly very minor are meant and our。
possibilities where we can live for the glory of God.。
Now this is different than we often think about it, because a lot of times you think。
about it's the big things, the spectacular things where we can live for the glory of。
God, you know, when we have an influence on all of society or things like that.。
But God, through Paul here, is calling the Corinthian church and everything you do, whatever。
you do, do it for the glory of God.。
And so this really challenges our thinking, because that's not how a lot of us think about。
our daily work.。
That's not how a lot of us think about waiting 1.5 hours on the phone for a phone call to。
be put through.。
That's not how a lot of us think about seemingly pointless meetings, right?。
And so what Paul is saying to the Corinthians and what he's showing them is that our everyday。
life, as boring as it might seem, can be an arena where we can live in such a way that。
it brings God glory.。
It means our everyday moments can be a place of worship.。
Our everyday moments can be a place where we can experience God's presence, God's power。
at work in our lives.。
Wow.。
It's not, again, not usually how we think about those little moments, but this is what。
Paul is saying here.。
So Paul is reframing how they think about these things, and he's also reframing that。
for us.。
But now we need to talk about another part, because it says, "for the glory of God."。
This is also a phrase that people use a lot, but what does that actually mean?。
What does glory of God, what is this actually referring to?。
The word that Paul is using here in Greek is "doksa," which means glory and splendor,。
but really underlying his concept is the Hebrew term "kavod."。
And kavod means heaviness, weighty, burden, riches, reputation, importance, glory, splendor,。
distinction, honor.。
And the idea behind kavod is that it's something important.。
It is weighty.。
It is significant.。
And what that means is that God is so awesome because he is creator.。
He's so awesome because of all that he does.。
And when we stand in his presence, there's an impact.。
We can feel it.。
And in Israel, when the temple was built, God, when he filled the temple with his glory,。
with his presence.。
So glory also has to do with God's presence.。
And when we experience God's presence, it is just something that just puts us in awe。
and it's beautiful.。
And so when we live for the glory of God, we're showcasing more fully who God is.。
We're making his presence known.。
But I want to actually take you to another verse in the Old Testament from Habakkuk.。
I only know how to say it in German.。
I won't even try in English.。
And Habakkuk, the prophet is saying that the world is heading to a time when there will。
be knowledge of the glory of the Lord.。
So Habakkuk 2, verse 14 says this, "For the earth will be filled with the knowledge of。
the glory of the Lord as waters covers the sea."。
Now what this means is that right now at this point in time, even though God's glory is。
everywhere, God is present everywhere, but we are not perceiving it.。
People are not seeing it.。
They're not experiencing it.。
They're not aware of it.。
But one day, every person will have knowledge of the glory of the Lord.。
They will see it.。
They will perceive it.。
They will experience it.。
St. Benedict talked about the already, but not yet.。
You know, so one day everyone will notice when Jesus comes again, when the kingdom is。
fully established, his glory, his presence, his beauty, his salvation will be fully known。
and fully visible to everyone.。
To everyone.。
Now bringing this back to Paul talking about, "Or whatever you do, do it for the glory of。
God."。
So what Paul is talking about here is that we are meant to make visible the things that。
are invisible right now to people, the glory of God.。
We're meant to make visible, we're meant to make God visible by how we do our work, how。
we relate to others, what we say, and how we conduct our lives.。
Know that when we image God, when we live out who we created us to be, we showcase who。
God is, his character, his beauty, his presence.。
Our lives, they point beyond us and they point towards God.。
And then the earth is starting to be filled more and more with the knowledge of the glory。
of God.。
And so when we're talking about bringing God glory in our work, it means we're showcasing。
who God is.。
We're making him known.。
We're making his beauty, his presence more visible to people.。
Because that's what that means.。
But Paul, he further characterizes this in verse 33.。
Let me show you.。
He says this, "For I'm not seeking my own good, but the good of many so that they may。
be saved."。
So bringing God glory has also to do with seeking the good of others, with not just。
being focused on ourselves and our own self-interest, but putting the interests of others, having。
that impervi, putting that above ourselves for their sake.。
That is also a way that people see the beauty, the wonder, and experience the presence of。
God when we do that.。
And Paul modeled that with his life.。
He put others while being first murdered.。
Paul gets this from God, from Jesus.。
Philippians 2, right, it talks about that Jesus humbled himself, that he who had all。
the glory took on human nature, died on the cross for our sins so that we can be brought。
into the family of God.。
So he humbled himself and he thought of our well-being, of your and mine well-being so。
that we can be forgiven, that we can experience a relationship with God, that we can experience。
restoration, wholeness, healing.。
And he had that in view.。
And so Paul is following his examples.。
He wants us to follow his example so that we showcase the beauty of who God is.。
And so we do that when you live for God's glory, you live for the good of others.。
So we need to keep others in mind.。
And the Corinthians were not doing that.。
So Paul actually calls them out earlier on that, some of them, where they put their own。
interests first and it impacted others negatively.。
But let's continue.。
He further unpacks how our actions can enhance or also undermine other people's perception。
of who God is.。
So in verse 32 and 33 says this, "Do not cause anyone to stumble, whether Jews, Greeks, or。
the church of God, even as I try to please everyone in every way."。
So Paul is not suggesting, when he talks about pleasing everyone in every way, he's not a。
pushover, he's not a doormat that you walk over and can do whatever to.。
But what he's saying is he does not want to act in such a way that anything stands in。
the way hinders anyone from coming to know who Jesus is.。
From hearing the gospel message, he doesn't want to erect unnecessary barriers.。
He doesn't want that to stand in the way, so he does anything that he can because he's。
thinking of others for that not to happen.。
And so our actions and our choices, they can influence whether people are open to the gospel。
message or they can create obstacles.。
So how we conduct our work, how we carry ourselves out, it can open up and spark interest and。
point towards God, towards his beauty, towards who he is, or it can undermine that.。
And sadly, we all have experienced and we all have also done it to one degree or another。
where we've hurt others, where we have not enhanced the beauty of who God is through。
our actions.。
But Paul is calling us by the grace of God, by his mercy, to continue and to progress。
in more and more and more consistently enhancing who God is, showcasing who God is.。
And thank God that his grace is so much bigger than our failures, that even though barriers。
might have been erect, he can still overcome them because of who he is.。
And then finally, Paul is saying, "Imitate me," in verse 11, "as I have imitated Christ."。
So it's again, follow the example of the self-giving love of Jesus.。
That is really how you make God's glory known, how you make God visible when you follow that。
pattern.。
But it really also speaks to me, could we say, "Follow my example"?。
Follow my example at work that I'm currently living out.。
So maybe today there's also a call like, "Wow, what example am I giving?"。
And it's Jesus actually asking me to give a different example than I'm giving right。
now.。
But this brings us all back to how can we bring God's glory through everyday life?。
What does that actually look like?。
First we need to see that our daily work can be a place to live for the glory of God.。
A lot of times we have very dismissive attitudes actually towards our work.。
It's a necessary evil to endure.。
You know, I'm just trying to get out of here.。
It's a means to an end, just got to make a living.。
That's it.。
I don't care about my job.。
You know, it's just a means to an end.。
But if we approach our work in this way, then how can we do whatever we do for the glory。
of God?。
You can't.。
So we need a different mindset.。
We need a switch.。
And so the first thing, if we want to start living that way, we need a switch in our mind.。
That our workplace is a place where God is present, where God is at work, and where we。
can give him glory.。
No matter how mundane it seems, no matter how frustrating it is, no matter how difficult。
it is, you know, it is a place where God is at work and where we can give him glory through。
how we engage in that place.。
So that's the first thing.。
Now the second thing is we glorify God through what we do and how we do it.。
Now what we do, of course there are a few jobs that don't glorify God.。
For example, if you're a loan shark and you're giving out predatory loans to people who are。
in need and then they're not able to pay them back and you just keep them in debt perpetually,。
you know, if you're in that type of job, you need a quickie job.。
And so you need to discern, is your job a type of job that brings God glory just in。
its very own nature?。
But in the first message of the series, we talked about, you know, that we are created。
in the image of God.。
And that part of what it means to be created in the image of God means to be cultivators,。
needs to be workers, that co-labor with God, that do creative work like God does creative。
work that create culture, that do beautiful things, that make pieces of art, that organize。
things that are not organized, that advance his project.。
And when we focus on contributing to the flourishing of the world in general and the people specifically,。
you know, that brings God's glory.。
And it doesn't matter if your job is a loan officer or if it's a pastor or whatever it。
may be, just by doing your job and serving people through it, you know, you are bringing。
God glory.。
So that's the first thing.。
But then the second thing, and I think this signifies how we do our work.。
So when I was a loan officer, I could have like, "Ugh, hour and a half," you know, and。
then complain to my next, not next door, I guess, next best neighbor.。
And we could just chit-chat the whole time and just see how miserable, you know, the。
work is.。
But if I choose to have a positive attitude about what I do, it's okay, I'm waiting, maybe。
I can do some paperwork, I can do some other things.。
I encourage my co-workers when we do chit-chat, you know, try to listen to them, lift them。
up, encourage them.。
I work hard.。
You know, Christians really should be known for people who work hard, who do excellent。
work, that every employer wants to hire Christians because of how they carry themselves.。
And so when we do that, when we really seek to honor God through how we manage all these。
little details, how we deal with conflict in the work, you know, we give God glory.。
And God, his beauty and who he is, is revealed to those around us.。
We are making God visible in our workplace.。
Now, I want to invite up Esther, so let's give Esther a warm welcome.。
So Esther has been a part of our church community since we planted, and her husband Enoch is。
also one of the elders here, and she has two beautiful children.。
And so we're so grateful to have you here today, and she's going to be sharing with。
us about her processing, her thinking about the glory of God and what that means through。
our work.。
So thank you.。
Thank you, Tim.。
Thank you for inviting me.。
So hi, everyone.。
So when I first started working, I was quite eager to serve God.。
And that several years, I keep asking, "Hey, God, what can I do for you?。
And how can I bring glory to your name?"。
And for me, myself, I love art, and I heard about there is a one-year ministry program。
that using art to help people building God's community.。
So I jumped in at the chance.。
So it sounds very exciting, but at the same time, saying yes was not easy for me.。
For that time, I had to quit my job and quite a steady income, and my boyfriend, not quitting。
him, just leaving him.。
He's now my husband.。
And everything familiar.。
And I remember I still need to raise my own salary for that whole year.。
And so I remember once I arrived, I was quite struggled.。
It was like speaking different language and feeling out of place and even small things。
like cockroaches.。
I have to face it alone, so I feel stretched in every way.。
So at the end of that year, I sat down with a mentor to reflect the whole experience.。
And during our prayer, I had a very clear vision that God gave me.。
And he said, I saw myself sitting on his shoulder, and he was so big.。
And just like he was standing there and showing me the city.。
We were looking out over the city.。
And it felt like God showing me.。
He even like hold me and show me, this is what I did.。
And what he had been doing all along, like his work and his glory.。
And then I was so excited.。
Like in that picture, I was so excited.。
I was very joyful.。
And I sense him saying that, even if you do nothing, I still love you.。
So to be honest, I think this is comforting for everyone.。
But at that time, I was upset.。
Hey, I thought, what do you mean?。
Like I have given up so much to be here.。
But over time, I realized God was not trying to dismiss my effort, but he was inviting。
me to slow down, to notice and to appreciate what he was already doing.。
He wanted me to witness his work and just focus, but not just focusing on my work, like。
it's his work.。
So fast forward to this summer, now I'm working as a therapist.。
And when I know that I'm invited to share, and I think God reminded of this story, like。
one of my former teenage clients, and I have her consent to share her, like just part of。
her story.。
And she had been struggled for a year with self-harm.。
And she went through deep emotional struggles and breakdowns because of an abusive home。
and how she spent years unable to attend school.。
So this year on DSE result day, you know, usually it's the mid of July.。
For your information, DSE is the Hong Kong public exam that helping you to get into the。
universities.。
And I didn't expect anything from her, but she surprisingly sent me a message that she。
told me she doesn't even like able to attend school.。
She even attend all the exams and complete the prep-tech examination with every subject。
passed.。
And she's so proud of herself.。
Yeah, I really want to give her a hand.。
She's so proud of herself finding strength to live again.。
That's what exact wording she said to me.。
And when I received her message, I was deeply moved.。
And because I witnessed her journey, like at that moment, I feel like, oh, I have a。
glimpse of the precious, beautiful strength of God had placed in her, like shining through。
all the brokenness she had faced and perhaps she's still facing.。
And that moment brought me to pause and simply be in awe of God's glory.。
And on that result day, there are so many people looking for top grades, like big achievement.。
I think those are also glory, but sometimes I think God's glory also shines through in。
this ordinary, like in this quiet moment of hope and strength.。
So yeah, I think in the whole process, I'm remind glorifying God is just doing, about。
doing more, achieving higher.。
I think there's no comparison is needed.。
Everyone is different.。
And sometimes it's just about pausing long enough to recognize God's presence and His。
work in every day.。
So I hope we can all catch a glimpse of His glory even in the ordinary.。
Thank you.。
Wonderful.。
Thank you so much for sharing Esther.。
I want to pick up on one of the things that Esther said.。
And, you know, it's easy.。
She was sharing about her own experience of trying to give God glory and then God, you。
know, putting her on her shoulder and showing her.。
And that He just wanted her to see what He was doing.。
Like now, of course, she can glorify God, but at that moment, He just also wanted her。
to enjoy the work that God was already doing and to behold His beauty and not to miss that。
herself as we're striving, you know, and are so focused on giving God glory.。
And I think that's really important that, yes, whatever you do, do it for the glory。
of God, but don't miss God in it.。
Right?。
See what He's doing, experience His presence, see His beauty, celebrate it, see it in other。
people's lives.。
And it was interesting as I was thinking about giving God glory, I really have come to believe。
that a lot of times it's actually in the small, everyday, mundane things that we glorify God。
the most.。
And I want to explain that a little bit.。
First of all, there usually is no other agenda.。
Like we're not trying to build a reputation for ourselves when it's a small, mundane thing.。
We're just doing it because we love God and we're loving the people around us.。
And so there's a pureness in that, in these small, everyday moments when we choose to。
give God glory, when we choose to do work well, when we choose to be patient with somebody.。
You know, these little things, they really honor Him and give Him praise.。
And I was praying about myself, like, "God, how have I given you glory through my work?"。
And beforehand, I'll be honest, I thought about, I'll probably say something about the。
church plant, maybe about a sermon that especially seemed to have hit home.。
But actually, as I was praying, the things that the Holy Spirit brought to my mind were。
the behind the scene moments.。
It's like when I chose to obey God when nobody was watching, that He was glorified through。
that.。
I had to think of one particular instance.。
And I'm not going to share much detail about this, but basically, I was entitled to something.。
And I was praying over that, whether or not to do that.。
And as I was praying, God spoke to me about that if I do that, it would impact other people。
negatively, even though I wasn't entitled to it.。
And I had people in my life cheering me on, "Oh, you should do it.。
It's yours."。
But I chose not to do it, which was very hard and came also at quite a high cost.。
And only a few people know what this was about.。
Some Christians, some not Christian.。
But that was the moment where I really felt God's joy and delight over me, that I glorified。
Him through what I did.。
And it wasn't those behind the scenes, small moments, that He shapes us and molds us into。
people who reflect His character, who broadcast His beauty, who make visible through how we。
love, how we treat others, how we live our lives.。
And that's what those everyday moments are.。
If you're not giving God glory in those everyday little moments, you're missing out on this。
work that God wants to do in you and through you.。
You're missing out on who God wants you to be and who He wants to shape you to be.。
You're missing out on growing big people.。
On imaging Him more fully, His character, His likeness.。
And so as I was thinking about bringing God glory through our work, I really felt like。
that this was God's invitation to us here today as a church.。
That He is inviting you or calling you back to give God glory in those small, everyday,。
mundane moments that maybe don't seem big, but that God will work through it, that He。
will make Himself known, that the knowledge of the glory of God will increase because。
you everyday faithfully are choosing to bring Him glory, whether somebody's watching or。
not.。
And guess what?。
When those supposedly big moments come, because of what you've been doing, you're that type。
of person who will bring God glory.。
Because that's the trajectory you're on.。
And that's what He is calling to and inviting you to.。
I want to invite the worship team to come up.。
I had the, sorry, I need to blow my nose.。
Yeah, I do.。
I had to sense that some of us, maybe like Esther, we had this gung-ho phase in our lives.。
We're like, "I'm going to live and work for the glory of God."。
But for whatever reason, that somehow got lost along the way.。
And I just sensed that today God wants to invite you to renew your heart, to restore。
your heart, to not be cynical, to not underestimate what He wants to do through small and mundane。
moments.。
So I want to invite you to stand.。
And I would love to pray for you.。
And if that's a desire of your heart, you're like, "Lord, I just want to give you glory。
through those small, mundane, everyday moments."。
Just as a symbol of that, it's like, "Here I am again," or, "Here I am for the first。
time.。
I never thought about it."。
I just want to invite you to stretch out your hand before you.。
I would love to pray over you.。
Jesus, I thank you so much that you have created us and that you've called us to be people。
who love like you love, who showcase your character so that others who don't know you。
can just see how beautiful, how amazing, how incredible you are.。
And I thank you for every heart right now that is expressing, "Lord, I want to serve。
you."。
I don't care if it's like the big moments or if it's the small moments.。
I just want to bring you glory.。
I just want to honor you, whether people are watching or not.。
And Lord, and so I pray that you will powerfully make yourself visible in everyone's life,。
that we can see you in our workplace.。
Maybe we can see you in those places that we felt like are just mundane and dumb and。
we just want to get away from them, but that they actually are places where you are at。
work, at work in our lives and at work in other people's lives.。
And so Lord, so we surrender and we say, "Holy Spirit, come.。
Will you fill our hearts?。
Will you renew our hearts?。
We've grown old.。
We've grown cynical.。
We've given up.。
Will you restore us?。
Will you do a new thing?"。
And Lord, I pray now over everyone that as we go out this week, as we choose to bring。
you glory in the small little things every day, that because of that, you will make yourself。
known, that you will shine brightly through this community, that more people will come。
to knowledge of your glory because you have faithful followers of you just loving you。
in the little things, loving you in the behind the scenes things.。
And so we offer our lives to you, Jesus, we say, "Use us for your glory."。
And church, we all say to this in Jesus' name, amen.。
Amen.。
Thank you.。
[MUSIC]。
