>> Yeah, thank you Justin.。
And good morning, if you're joining online,。
good morning to you too.。
Honored as always to be here.。
And like Justin said,。
we are wrapping up our Ephesians series today.。
It's been a great journey through this book。
and I'm glad to be finishing off today.。
So, something, I mean my colleagues at the Vine here。
know this very well.。
People who know me know this quite well.。
In general, I'm not a very serious person, okay?。
I mean like I'm serious about God's word,。
but my general demeanor is,。
why are you brief a lot?。
It's like, Justin, you're not surprised, okay?。
Like I like to play jokes, I like to play pranks.。
Around the office, there's a little bit of a reputation。
about the guy who like plays the practical jokes。
on people and all that kind of stuff.。
The most often victim of these sort of sneak attacks。
or these practical jokes are of course my wife, okay?。
So, sometimes these jokes work well,。
sometimes not so well, okay?。
This was one that works well.。
Okay, take notes, okay?。
So, you turn on the shower, okay?。
You draw the curtain and so, you know,。
she thinks I'm in the shower, okay?。
The shower's going shh and then I call out,。
but actually I'm not in the shower,。
I'm hiding under the sink, okay?。
So, hey honey, could you pass me my toothbrush?。
Okay, so she goes into the shower, you know,。
she says, hey, okay, here's your toothbrush,。
here you go, here you go, but no one's responding。
'cause there's no one behind there, right?。
So, she opens the curtain, no one's there,。
it's like, what's happening?。
And then right at that moment, under the sink,。
I grab her by the ankle, ah, okay,。
and she screams, okay, that's a good one, okay?。
Often it works, okay.。
Sometimes, however, these jokes don't work so well.。
Okay, Akin was taking notes, okay.。
One time I saw my wife, we were out separately。
and we just happened, my wife and I,。
Brittany and I, were coming home at the same time。
and so I thought, okay, perfect opportunity,。
I'm gonna play a prank on her.。
And so, you know, with stealth-like movements,。
I went ahead of her and I hid behind,。
you know, sometimes you get one of those electrical boxes。
that sit on the side of the street.。
So I hid behind one of those electrical boxes,。
hoping that when she would walk past,。
I would jump out and scare her。
and it'd be, you know, really funny, okay.。
Problem was, I was just focusing on like,。
watching where she was going。
and not anything else around me, right?。
What I didn't notice was, this light box。
was next to the bike path, okay.。
And so, I was hiding behind, she was walking past,。
but as she was walking past and I jumped out,。
like, boo, and tried to scare her,。
a biker on his bike was coming full speed down。
and he hit me, okay.。
And so I go flying back onto the path,。
my shoes fly off, you know, everything's crazy.。
This guy is so, understandably, so angry at me.。
He's like, what are you doing?。
You know, starts asking about my mother,。
all this kind of stuff, okay.。
I'm just like, oh, sorry, I don't even know, okay.。
Meanwhile, okay, Brittany is there,。
she's seen the whole thing, apparently.。
She saw me hide behind the light box, like,。
what's this person doing, okay?。
And then she saw me jump out, get scared, okay.。
In the end, I ended up with a fracture wrist。
and a trip to the ER, right, so, yeah.。
Moral of the story, right?。
Do better when you're trying to scare your wife,。
all right, now.。
I know that this is just a silly story,。
but I wanna illustrate something.。
Maybe you can think about it this way.。
As you go about life, does it ever feel like。
you're under attack?。
As you go about life, does it ever feel like。
there's something or someone out there。
who's trying to get you?。
I mean, what if I told you right now,。
in this very moment, we're actually in the middle。
of a battle that's being fought, right?。
It's just that you can't see what's happening all the time.。
It's not something you can always see。
with your eyes or feel with your senses.。
Okay, I'm not talking about tinfoil,。
conspiracy theories, or anything like that, okay.。
What we're talking about today is spiritual warfare.。
Let me lay a little bit of a definition。
before we go any further.。
Right, throughout the Bible and throughout history,。
right, there is this belief,。
and it's a biblical teaching as well,。
that there is a spiritual realm, right?。
Scholars sometimes call this an unseen realm, right?。
It exists side by side by this physical world,。
this realm that we're living in right now.。
And so the Bible teaches us there are spiritual beings,。
right, these beings were created by God。
just like human beings were.。
They've been there since the beginning of this world.。
And God created these spiritual beings。
in order to help him rule the world.。
It's a sort of an illustration of this,。
could be you can picture God as like a CEO,。
it's not the best example, but you know,。
he is a CEO, he's the big boss, okay,。
and he has his staff team, okay,。
the council of these divine beings。
that were created to help him in his rule of the world.。
However, just like human beings rebelled,。
his children wanted to be God instead of be God's children.。
In the same way, these spiritual beings。
also rebelled against God.。
Some of these beings also rebelled against God.。
And instead of them enticing and turning。
and encouraging people to worship God,。
they started to get people to worship them instead, right,。
and they crossed many boundaries.。
Genesis 6, two tells us that the sons of God,。
referring to these spiritual beings,。
saw that the daughters of humankind were beautiful.。
Thus, they took wise for themselves from any they chose.。
This is the Bible teaching us。
how rebellious these beings have become.。
They came down to earth and had relations with humans,。
all right, it's kind of weird,。
but it's in the Bible, it's there, right.。
Another example, in the book of Job.。
Job gives a really clear story, a really clear picture。
about these rebellious spiritual beings。
having some sort of influence。
and power and authority on this earth, right.。
Now, the day came, Job 1, when the sons of God again,。
okay, came to present themselves before the Lord,。
and Satan also arrived among them.。
The Lord said to Satan, "Where have you come from?"。
And Satan answered the Lord,。
"From roving about on the earth。
"and walking back and forth across it."。
And as you know, in the book of Job, in the story of Job,。
there's a season in Job's life, right,。
chaos and ruin permitted by God,。
but all orchestrated by the enemy.。
We could talk about this stuff forever.。
If you wanna talk more, I love talking about this stuff,。
okay, take me out for a coffee,。
and then we can talk more about it, okay.。
But the point I'm trying to make is this,。
is that yes, there really are dark and evil forces。
in this world, and they are trying to do everything they can。
to sabotage, to distract,。
and to destroy your relationship with Jesus.。
The enemy out there is out there, and he is not a friend.。
And I think this is especially relevant。
for the people in the Ephesians, of course,。
but like the Ephesian city, Hong Kong, right,。
is a city full of opportunity。
to turn to other spiritual sources for guidance,。
right, from things like feng shui, to fortune tellers,。
to the da si yang, the hitting small people down the road,。
okay, visiting temples to spin the wheel,。
playing with Ouija boards.。
All these are examples of how the enemy。
tries to capture our attention.。
And so as followers of Jesus in this culture,。
in this city, we have to be very, very careful,。
'cause when we see these things,。
it's not just a little bit of harmless fun.。
Like it's not harmless just to go to a fortune teller。
and say, "Oh, I'm interested in my love life.。
"Can you tell me a little bit about that?"。
Okay, it's not okay.。
It's not okay just to invite a feng shui master。
to come to your office and give you some tips。
on where you should put the fish tank and the tank,。
and you should do this with the windows,。
all that kind of stuff, okay?。
It's not okay, because these practices。
are clearly not from God,。
which means that the source of power。
is from a dark and evil place.。
Therefore, as Christians, as followers of Jesus,。
we should have nothing to do with these practices.。
Because like I said just now, there's a fight happening。
between the forces of good and evil in these unseen realms,。
unseen to us, but definitely can have effect。
on our lives and even our souls.。
And so this is why what we're talking about today。
is important.。
In fact, the whole letter of Ephesians,。
Paul has been preparing his readers for this moment.。
Throughout the letter, Paul has called them,。
has encouraged them to challenge them。
in the way they live their lives, right?。
To be counter-cultural, to live in a way。
that reflects the fact that we are followers of Jesus.。
To live in a way that puts the power of God。
at work in display, right?。
A power so strong, Paul says, it's able to do。
more than we can ever ask or imagine, right?。
This is the power that we carry as followers of Jesus.。
And as followers of Jesus, everybody is invited。
into this community.。
So another thing Paul reminds us of,。
we've been called to live in radical unity.。
Doesn't matter who you are, slave, free, Greek, Jew,。
doesn't matter, man, male, female,。
everyone has been called into this community。
to live in radical unity, serving each other,。
submitting to each other, working with each other。
for the glory of God.。
Paul also reminds us that we have been brought。
out of the darkness into the light.。
That we were once dead, but now we are alive。
in the love of Christ.。
And because of this, everything we do should be done。
in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.。
And so what here is what Paul's saying.。
Here's what scripture is saying.。
If we're really gonna live like this,。
if we take these words seriously,。
if we're gonna take this series I've been walking through。
and apply it to our lives, then you best believe。
we're gonna expect some opposition from the enemy.。
Because the enemy will attack.。
And when he does, if we're not ready,。
if we're not equipped to take a stand。
and to fight back in some way, we'll be in trouble.。
But here's the other thing, and this is the encouraging part.。
We don't need to freak out and be super scared about this.。
Because as we're about to find out,。
God has given us everything we need.。
Not only to withstand against the enemy,。
but to fight back against his schemes.。
Listen to these ending words of this letter.。
Ephesians 6.10, "Finally, be strong in the Lord。
"and in his mighty power.。
"Put on the full armor of God so that you can take。
"your stand against the devil's schemes.。
"For our struggle is not against flesh and blood,。
"but against the rulers, against the authorities,。
"against the powers of this dark world,。
"and against the spiritual forces of evil。
"in the heavenly realms.。
"Therefore, put on the full armor of God。
"so that when the day of evil comes,。
"you may be able to stand your ground,。
"and after you have done everything, to stand.。
"Stand firm then with the belt of truth,。
"buckled around your waist,。
"with a breastplate of righteousness in place,。
"and with your feet fitted with the readiness。
"that comes from the gospel of peace.。
"In addition to all this, take up the shield of faith。
"with which you can extinguish all the flaming arrows。
"of the evil one.。
"Take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit,。
"which is the word of God.。
"And pray in the Spirit on all occasions,。
"with all kinds of prayers and requests.。
"With this in mind, be alert and always keep on praying。
"for all the Lord's people.。
"Pray also for me that whenever I speak,。
"words may be given to me so that I will fiercely,。
"fearlessly make known the mystery of the gospel,。
"for which I am an ambassador in chains.。
"Pray that I might declare it fiercely as I should."。
It's a beautiful passage.。
It's well-known, it's descriptive,。
but it's also super practical.。
So we're gonna walk through this together,。
hand in hand, okay, and see how it equips us。
for this battle we have ahead.。
Well, Paul starts with this.。
It starts with telling us to be strengthened.。
It starts with strength.。
Whatever battle you're fighting in,。
it's always gonna require strength.。
But notice here, the strength, the source of this strength.。
Where is this strength coming from?。
This is not a strength we must up in ourselves, right?。
Paul is calling us to be strong in the Lord。
and in his mighty power.。
Our own efforts will only ever get us so far in this battle.。
If we wanna prevail, if we wanna stand firm,。
we have to know what it means to be strong。
and live in his power, in God's power.。
The psalmist refers to this all the time。
as you read through the psalm time and time again, right?。
"My refuge is in the Lord.。
"God is the strength of my heart."。
Jesus reminds his followers of this before he dies.。
He told his disciples, "Without me, you can do nothing."。
So church, let us ask ourselves this morning,。
what is the source of your strength?。
It's easy to rely on all sorts of other kind of things.。
Right, some of us are pretty physically fit and strong.。
That's great.。
Right, some of us are super smart.。
We have the brains and that's really good.。
Some of us have resources and money。
and all that kind of stuff.。
That's a source of strength.。
But all of these earthly sources。
will never be enough in this battle。
because as it says,。
our battle is not against flesh and blood.。
So the first step of today,。
the first thing we need to do is,。
as we fight this battle together,。
is to find your strength in the Lord and his mighty power.。
And how do we do that?。
What does strength in the Lord look like?。
Well, actually, I think the answer is quite simple.。
Strength in the Lord is total surrender to him.。
To do what he says, to be obedient to God.。
Strength in the Lord is what Paul reminds us of。
early in chapter three,。
to live as Christ is dwelling in our hearts through faith.。
Surrendering to the Lord, walking in obedience with him.。
That's where we find our strength.。
So after we've been strengthened,。
we are empowered by the Lord's strength.。
Then we're instructed to put on the full armor of God。
so that you can take your stand。
against the devil's evil schemes.。
For our struggle is not against flesh and blood,。
but against the rulers and authorities,。
the dark powers of this world。
and against the spiritual forces of evil。
in the heavenly realms.。
Put on.。
So this is actually action we have to take now, to put on.。
It's not just a display piece in the museum。
for you to admire and to look at.。
You actually have to put this on.。
Again, time and time throughout the book of Ephesians,。
Paul is encouraging us to put things on,。
to take off the old self, to put on the new self.。
Now we're being encouraged to put on the armor of God.。
And in a battle, you're gonna need armor.。
But notice again, the source of this armor,。
it's the armor of God, not your own armor,。
not your own ideas.。
We put on these things because the source of them。
is from God.。
And we put it on so we can take a stand。
against the devil schemes.。
Just as Jesus has good plans for your life,。
for you to have life and life in the full,。
to live a life free from the chains of sin,。
the enemy also has schemes for your life too.。
And when it comes to talking about the enemy schemes,。
I think it can go a few ways.。
Right, one idea, one perspective of this is that。
we refuse to believe that these things。
are actually happening.。
Right, we find it too weird.。
Maybe you're even sitting here right now。
and say, this is weird, Allison.。
I brought a friend today.。
You're talking about all this woo-woo stuff, okay,。
like focus on something else, okay?。
So we just ignore it.。
We don't wanna talk about it, it's weird, and we ignore it.。
Sometimes, though, we might trivialize it.。
Right, this is sort of picturing the devil。
as a man in a red spandex suit with a dodgy mustache。
holding a pitchfork.。
You know, it's like, kinda looks kinda comical.。
Yeah, you know, the mentality is that,。
yeah, it might be some weird stuff like that out there,。
but you know, no one takes it that seriously.。
It's just a bit of fun, you know.。
In fact, you know, it might even be interesting。
to see what happens there sometimes, right?。
So there's that perspective.。
Maybe some of us, though, live in constant fear。
of the enemy's attack, right?。
And so everything we do, we interpret it through the lens。
of it's a spiritual attack on me.。
Everything that happens, anything bad that happens,。
it's a spiritual attack on me.。
Like I said, we'll talk about this a bit more。
in a minute, right?。
And so, you know, we, it ends up being trapped in fear。
about the enemy's attack, right?。
Around every corner is a devil waiting to attack me.。
And then maybe there's some of us。
who have really crossed that line,。
who have shown too much of an interest。
and actually been drawn into the powers。
of this dark and evil world.。
And we found ourselves in some really, really dark。
and scary and evil places.。
All these, though, have one thing in common.。
What the scheme of the enemy is trying to do。
is to keep your eyes off of Jesus,。
to keep you in the dark, to feed you lies,。
to stir up your worry and your anxiety in your life.。
And I think one of the most popular thing he does。
is that the enemy loves to make evil look attractive.。
The enemy loves to think that sin。
and living outside of God's will,。
disobedience is something that we can just control。
for ourselves, right?。
Sin is like this little pet,。
like a little thing we can play with.。
When we get bored of it, we can put it away.。
But you know, it's harmless.。
I'm just gonna, you know,。
hang out with this thing for a little bit.。
But this is always how it starts.。
And this quote I got in my research for this message,。
you know, illustrates it so well.。
It says this, "Evil rarely looks evil。
until it accomplishes its goal.。
It gains entrance by appearing attractive,。
desirable, and perfectly legitimate.。
But it is a baited and camouflaged trap."。
Let's be wise, church.。
Let's not be fools.。
1 Peter 5:8 tells us, "The enemy, the devil,。
prowls around like a roaring lion。
looking for someone to devour."。
And sin and disobedience will absolutely destroy。
your lives now and even for all eternity.。
But this is why we call it a battle, right?。
Life as a Christian is a struggle.。
Because even though when we're aware of these things,。
that there's evil out there, there is a draw to it.。
Right, this is the word Paul uses for struggle here.。
It's actually the word, the same word。
for like a physical wrestling match, right?。
Wrestling was one of the popular sports。
in the back in the day, right?。
Like a jujitsu thing they're doing, you know.。
It feels like that sometimes, right?。
When you're wrestling against sin,。
someone's trying to get your back,。
trying to twist your arm, trying to choke you out.。
Maybe it's a bit like this in more practical ways.。
When temptation comes up.。
Lots of different examples of this,。
but for example, one thing that I find myself。
wrestling sometimes, right?。
Late at night, you're tired, everyone's asleep,。
and it's finally time for yourself.。
You're trying to settle down.。
What are some things that pop up to mind in that moment?。
Oh, you feel tired, you know, you've had a long day.。
Turn to this.。
Go onto that website.。
Have that extra drink that you don't need.。
Maybe it's drugs, maybe it's gambling,。
maybe it's an out of control shopping habit,。
something like that.。
And in those moments, if you do not have on the armor of God,。
if you are not strong in the Lord,。
the enemy will get the better of you.。
Which is why Paul says, "And put on the full armor of God,。
"so that when that day of evil comes,。
"when those moments come,。
"you may be able to stand your ground,。
"and after you've done everything, to stand."。
It's like me trying to play a prank on Brittany, right?。
Always trying to figure her out,。
always trying to trick her, scare her,。
in the same way the enemy is trying。
to do the same thing to us.。
Which is why we've been encouraged to stand our ground.。
Stand firm, wearing the full armor of God.。
This is how we fight back against the enemy and his schemes.。
The enemy is strong, he has influence, he has power,。
but it's limited.。
It's limited, and with this armor of God,。
we can stand firm against his schemes.。
So which is why again he says,。
"Stand firm, with a belt of truth。
"buckled around your waist.。
"The breastplate of righteousness is in place,。
"feet fitted with the readiness that comes from the gospel,。
"the shield of faith to extinguish。
"the flaming arrows of the evil one,。
"the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit,。
"which is the word of God."。
So there's a number of components, right?。
It's different things that we have been called to put on。
that help us in this battle against the enemy.。
So let's see how these parts fit together.。
First it says this,。
"The belt of truth buckled around your waist."。
Now as we're talking about this,。
imagine like a Roman soldier standing there.。
In the context of a soldier,。
the belt would have been the thing that keeps。
all the rest of the pieces together.。
Holds everything down so the soldier can be ready for action.。
The belt of truth around the waist.。
Now maybe some of us don't want us to see the truth。
around our waist, okay?。
Hips don't lie, you know what I mean?。
All right, but as believers of Jesus,。
as believers of Jesus, we know the truth.。
Now the enemy, his schemes, right?。
He hates the truth.。
John 8, 44 tells us that the enemy。
is a liar and the father of lies.。
The enemy hates the truth.。
But this is why we have to say it even more clearly.。
So let me remind us, church, of the truth.。
The truth is that Jesus loves you。
and he died for your sins.。
The truth is he is alive and resurrected.。
The truth that he has called you to live a life。
that reflects and shows his love to those around us.。
The truth is even though there are these other。
spiritual beings, there is only one true,。
all-powerful, almighty God.。
And the truth is the war has already been won.。
Jesus, over on this earth, is progressing。
and advancing against these unseen powers of darkness。
and the kingdom of God has a very clear goal。
and it will reach this goal.。
The reclamation of all peoples and all nations,。
the full restoration of God's creation。
to how he originally created it to be.。
This day is coming.。
That is the truth, church, and the truth doesn't change.。
So church, do you have this belt of truth。
buckled around you?。
Does the truth of who Jesus is and what he has done。
for you and all humanity hold your life together?。
Wrap this truth around yourself tightly.。
Buckle up because without it, everything will fall apart.。
Then it talks about the breastplate of righteousness.。
Now the breastplate is the largest piece。
of the Roman soldier's armor, protects the vital organs,。
the heart, the lungs, all that kind of stuff.。
But because the breastplate is the biggest,。
it's the most obvious part.。
It's the part that everyone can see.。
It's the most prominent thing.。
And so in our context, in what we're talking about here,。
for us, this means God has called us to proudly display。
the fact that we are followers of Jesus,。
that we are children of the light,。
that we walk in righteousness.。
Now the opposite of righteousness is wickedness.。
And the enemy, that's what he delights in, in wickedness.。
Scripture tells us that the enemy is an oppressor.。
The enemy is the orchestrator of injustice.。
The enemy would like to see us do unrighteous things,。
unholy things to each other.。
Then the enemy wants us to abuse。
and to take advantage of each other.。
That's wickedness.。
That's how the enemy's schemes work.。
But when we put on the breastplate of righteousness,。
it means that we are in right standing with God,。
which also means we are living out God's justice。
in his battle against evil.。
So church, put on this breastplate of righteousness.。
We are called to live a life that reflects God's heart。
for the weak and the oppressed.。
We are called to speak out and do something。
when a situation doesn't fit in to what God's heart is.。
We are called to act justly,。
just as God is just and righteous.。
So we put on this breastplate so we can be the people of God。
that he has called us to be.。
People who walk alongside the weak and the oppressed,。
who look after the widows and the orphans,。
a voice of justice in a world that's unjust,。
a people who are unashamedly living for the gospel,。
proudly declaring who they are.。
Put on this breastplate of righteousness。
and wear it proudly, church.。
Then it tells us, the feet fitted with the readiness。
that comes from the gospel of peace.。
So much of a soldier's life, right,。
you can imagine is either spent standing firm,。
standing in one place, keeping guard,。
or requiring them to march forward。
and move to a different place.。
Both require strong, steady shoes.。
And time and time again, you have heard it repeated,。
the call has been to stand firm,。
stand firm, to be unmoved.。
You see, the enemy doesn't want us to stand firm.。
The enemy wants to make us change our minds.。
That's another one of his schemes,。
especially in our relationship with Jesus.。
The enemy knows that a double-minded person。
is unstable in all that they do.。
James 1:8 tells us that.。
And so what he wants to do,。
he likes nothing more than to make us second guess。
Jesus' love for us, his plans for us,。
to get us to doubt what God has already told us.。
In other words, to disrupt the peace that you feel。
when you have the word of God,。
when you have Jesus living with you and in you。
that comes from following the Lord.。
Do you feel like you can relate to this?。
Have you ever felt yourself doubting the goodness of God?。
Right at the beginning, that was his scheme, right?。
He said to Eve, did God really say this?。
Trying to get her to change her mind?。
Do you ever find yourself living one way。
in certain situations or living another life。
in another situation?。
Big part of my testimony growing up,。
I struggled with that so much.。
I felt like with my school friends,。
and in one context I was this person,。
but in another context I was the good church boy。
and it was so hard trying to navigate my life。
between the two identities。
that I seemed to carry at that time.。
Do you ever hear the enemy make you doubt。
if God really has given you the peace he has promised you?。
We need to fit our feet in the gospel。
because the gospel is the only thing。
that gives us a firm foundation to stand on,。
to build our lives upon.。
Jesus said this before he left earth,。
peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you,。
not as the world gives do I give to you.。
Let not your hearts be troubled,。
neither let them be afraid.。
So we fit our feet with the gospel。
so that we can have a firm place to stand。
and to build our life.。
But here's the other thing,。
at the same time, knowing the gospel。
also allows us to bring this peace。
to areas of conflict, to areas that need it.。
We have been called to stand firm, yes,。
but sometimes offense is the best version of defense.。
And when we see there's a place that needs the gospel,。
when we see our family and our friends,。
when we see areas of this society that needs peace,。
then we are called to carry it there.。
And when that moment comes for you to carry the gospel,。
to live out the gospel, to speak the gospel,。
we also need to be ready for those moments。
whenever opportunity presents itself.。
Whenever God calls you,。
will you be able to respond like Isaiah and say,。
Lord, here I am, send me.。
So we put on the gospel,。
we fit our feet with the gospel of peace。
so that we cannot just stand firm,。
but also bring the gospel to those places that need it.。
Then it says we need to take up the shield of faith。
with which you can extinguish。
all the flaming arrows of the evil one.。
So the shields for Roman soldier。
were probably about like four feet high,。
about as wide as a body,。
a cover up most of the upper body.。
They were important because。
one of the most common methods of attack back then。
was to dip arrows in tar and light it.。
You've probably seen it in the movies, right?。
These flaming arrows, literally flaming arrows that come。
and so like with the sword, you can,。
with a shield, you can block the enemy's attacks.。
The shields will have a special covering on the top,。
like a leather, so the shield itself。
wouldn't sort of burn up as well.。
Google it, I don't know.。
For us, this is what's important, okay?。
The shield of faith talks about our faith。
and our loyalty to Jesus, no matter what.。
The enemy is a master archer,。
and like we said, he fires, all things kind of schemes.。
His arrows he fires at us are things like doubt,。
things like fear, selfishness, impurity, lust, greed,。
adverse circumstances, pride, self-confidence,。
persecution, false teaching, all these things,。
the list could go on.。
These arrows are there to make us doubt what we believe in.。
His arrows are designed to try and burn down our faith.。
But the shield reminds us that we walk by faith。
and not by sight.。
So even as the enemy fires these arrows,。
we put up our faith, we put up our loyalty to Jesus,。
and they will be extinguished.。
Even when we do not fully see or understand。
what is happening, faith is acknowledging。
that God's ways are higher than our ways.。
And in this battle, we cannot defer, we cannot jump ship.。
We have to stay loyal to Jesus.。
One of the most amazing displays of faith and loyalty,。
I think, in scripture is through the story。
of Daniel's friends, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego。
in the book of Daniel.。
Here they are facing the fiery furnace,。
and these are their words.。
"If we are thrown into the blazing furnace,。
"the God we serve is able to deliver us from it,。
"and he will deliver us."。
That's the faith.。
"But even if he does not, we want you to know,。
"your majesty, that we will not serve your gods。
"or worship the image of gold you have set up."。
That's the loyalty.。
So church, we have been called to hold on tight。
to the shield of faith, and to loyally follow Jesus。
into battle, extinguishing all the flaming arrows。
of the enemy.。
Then it tells us about the helmet of salvation.。
Right, for the soldier, the helmet covers。
another important part of the body, the head.。
And the helmet was also sometimes a way of determining。
the position and the rank of the soldier,。
these plumes on the top of the helmet.。
And so for us, this helmet speaks to our identity.。
It's knowing who you belong to.。
As you battle, as you take your stand,。
know that you are fighting for King Jesus.。
That as brothers and sisters, as people of Christ,。
we are part of the Lord's army.。
And with the helmet of salvation,。
and what that does, it's that reminds us。
that we have already been saved.。
This is one of the most important things to hold on to.。
All these things that the enemy's trying to do,。
ultimately, they're not gonna change the outcome.。
Right, we said this just now, Jesus is already victorious.。
He's doing everything he can to try and distract us。
from this fact.。
But through his death and resurrection,。
Jesus has already won.。
He has already overcome sin and death.。
And the enemy's not attacking from a place of strength,。
but from a place of already having been defeated.。
Well, we have to realize this,。
the enemy is a desperate loser.。
In this time, he might have some influence on earth,。
but his fate has already been sealed.。
And when Jesus returns, when the new heaven。
and the new earth comes,。
the enemy and all his deeds。
and all these other spiritual forces,。
these evil spiritual forces,。
will be destroyed once and for all.。
And the helmet reminds us that salvation。
and victory belongs to our God.。
We are on the winning side.。
And so yes, we might get wounded.。
We might get hurt.。
But following Jesus and doing spiritual battle。
against the enemy is not going to be a breeze.。
It's not going to be smooth sailing.。
Let's not forget there are people out there,。
other Christians in parts of the world。
who are literally being persecuted,。
literally risking their lives for the sake of the gospel.。
But even in that situation,。
the helmet of salvation reminds us,。
even if we were to lose everything on this earth,。
everything, we are still victorious。
because God has already won the ultimate battle.。
So church, we put on our helmet.。
Be brave.。
Be strong and courageous, as scripture has called us to.。
Take risks for Jesus.。
Go all out and live for him。
because he has already saved you.。
And finally, we get the sword of the spirit,。
which is the word of God.。
The sword is the one weapon of offense the soldier carries,。
a short little dagger-like thing。
used for close-handed combat.。
For us, though, when it speaks of the sword,。
this speaks to the power of God's word.。
And we remind ourselves, scripture is reminding us。
that the word of God is alive and active.。
Throughout scripture, again, you see,。
whenever the word of God is heard,。
whenever God speaks, there is power in it.。
Things happen when God speaks.。
Situations change.。
Therefore, knowing God's word is one of the key ways。
we not only stand firm against the enemy,。
but the only weapon you have in this battle。
against the enemy is the sword of his word,。
the sword of the spirit.。
Jesus himself is a great example of this.。
When Jesus is tested in the wilderness,。
when the enemy tempts him with lies,。
when the enemy fires his darts at him,。
he stays loyal, he does all that stuff,。
but then he also fights back with scripture,。
with God's word.。
In the same way, then, church,。
we today need to have a relationship。
and a good understanding of the word of God。
to withstand the enemy and to fight back against his schemes.。
So let's cherish God's word, church.。
Read it.。
Meditate on it.。
Cherish it.。
Memorize it.。
Study it together.。
Listen to it, because this is our only weapon。
in this fight against the enemy.。
But be encouraged also that God still speaks today,。
yes, through his word,。
but one of the key ways God speaks today。
is through the Holy Spirit.。
The Holy Spirit, therefore,。
also fights back against the enemy when we're attacked.。
Since this battle is not against flesh and blood,。
our weapon is also not against flesh,。
our weapons are also not physical weapons.。
We too now, then, we study God's word。
and we follow the Holy Spirit。
and allow him to move in power whenever he speaks.。
Now, finally, it's this.。
You see, we're not just individual soldiers。
fighting these battles,。
these little squirmishes on our own.。
Paul brings everything together。
in the central idea of prayer.。
Prayer's the final thing that completes the armor of God.。
This is why Paul signs off this letter by saying,。
and pray in the spirit in all occasions。
with all kinds of prayers and requests,。
with this in mind, be alert and always keep on praying。
for all the Lord's people.。
Pray also for me that whenever I speak,。
words may be given me so that I will fiercely make known。
the mystery of the gospel for which I am ambassador。
in chains, pray that I might declare it fearlessly。
as I should.。
Paul's writing to a community, to a group of people,。
and he's asking them to pray together.。
Always pray, don't stop praying.。
He says this in other parts of his letter.。
Pray in all occasions, keep on praying for God's people.。
Keep on praying for each other.。
And pray also for me.。
See, it's a sobering end to this letter。
because we're reminded as Paul is writing this letter,。
he's not actually writing from a place of confidence.。
He is in prison.。
He is actually being held captive and in chains.。
In some commentaries you read, as he's writing this,。
there was probably a literal Roman soldier。
standing there keeping a guard of him.。
But notice what he says.。
He doesn't pray, oh, pray for my release,。
pray for justice to be done, pray that I would walk free.。
That's the probably kind of stuff。
I would be asking people to pray for.。
But he gets it.。
In this battle, he doesn't say,。
pray that I would be released.。
He says, pray for my wisdom.。
Pray for my courage.。
Pray that I would know what to say。
in every single situation for the sake of Jesus.。
You see, this is what it looks like then,。
to stand firm and to fight back。
against the schemes on the enemy.。
This is what it looks like。
when no weapons formed against you prosper.。
Because no matter what situation you're in,。
you are strong in the Lord.。
And so we pray together as a community.。
When things come up, we join together in prayer。
and walk alongside each other as a community.。
Fight as a community of believers, not just on your own.。
And so since Paul encourages us to do this,。
this is how I wanna end our time together this morning.。
So we're gonna still our hearts for a moment.。
And maybe if you came with someone today,。
you know, Paul's asking us to pray together.。
Maybe turn to the person you came with right now.。
And we can ask each other for you,。
have a quick conversation, you know,。
how can I pray for you?。
Where have you been feeling attacked lately?。
Where do you need courage?。
Where do you need the Spirit of God to empower you,。
to strengthen you, to walk alongside you?。
How can I be a brother and a sister to you this morning?。
Prayer is one of those things,。
it's one of those beautiful things。
that help us to acknowledge that, again,。
this is not by our own power.。
It's a mysterious thing that when we pray。
and when God speaks and when he works,。
we see him move in power.。
Even though we can't really explain how it works,。
at the same time we know that without prayer, we are nothing.。
And so church, just take a couple minutes right now.。
If you came alone, I encourage you,。
you can, if you use a bit of courage,。
pray with the, ask for prayer for the person next to you.。
In the areas of struggle that you have,。
in the areas that you feel like the enemy is attacking you,。
we pray with each other to stand firm in this battle.。
So give us a few minutes to do that。
and then I'm gonna close with a prayer.。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
So Jesus, we thank you for giving us this armor.。
We thank you that you do not leave us alone。
and defenseless and helpless,。
but you equip us and empower us to live on this earth。
in a victorious way,。
in a way that doesn't live in carrying fear。
of what the enemy might do to us,。
but in the confidence that no matter。
what the enemy does to us,。
we can stand firm,。
that we have this faith that can quench every single lie。
and doubt and attack that the enemy might try。
to harm us with,。
and still stand firm and say,。
I am a child of God.。
I am in the Lord's army and with my brothers。
and sisters around me in community,。
praying with me, praying for me,。
the enemy will not be successful。
in the schemes that he has planned for us,。
but the plan of God,。
his will is what is gonna be done。
and accomplished in this world.。
So Jesus, we give ourselves over to you.。
Father, I pray for those of us out there。
who may have strayed in this area.。
Perhaps we have switched allegiances。
and in a moment of weakness,。
in a season of doubt,。
we've turned to other spiritual sources for advice,。
for direction in how to live our life.。
Father, I pray that if any of us listening online。
or those of us who are in this room right now。
or family members are in that place,。
Father, I pray that the Holy Spirit would come right now,。
the power would come right now。
and just cut off all schemes and all lies。
and all attachments that the enemy has made in that space.。
That the enemy has no hold on anybody in this room。
and with the full armor of God,。
we are standing firm.。
And that from this day onwards。
and in every moment we trust and rely in you.。
We build our lives,。
we put our feet solidly on the solid ground on the gospel.。
We rest in the truth of you being the almighty King。
and together Lord, with your word, we march forward.。
We fight back against the enemy。
and we await your coming back to this earth。
and reclaiming your rightful place on the throne.。
Until then Lord, sustain us in this fight,。
keep us strong, keep us unified in your love,。
keep us trusting in you, keep us loyal to King Jesus.。
We pray these in your mighty, beautiful,。
awesome, victorious name, the name of Jesus, amen.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
If you're still praying.。
