(soft music)。
- Imagine with me for a moment, a church.。
This is not a church in the singular,。
on its own and distinct, but a church in the plural,。
united across a nation, joined in purpose,。
focused on building up God's kingdom one life at a time.。
It is a church that has at the heart of its DNA,。
the grand narrative of the redemptive story of Jesus Christ,。
and that celebrates in the freedom and grace。
that such a story brings.。
This church is not constricted by the walls of a building,。
but actively engaged in the community it is planted in,。
desiring for God's kingdom to take root。
and bear fruit in local soil.。
A church that sees salvation as holistic,。
transforming God's people for God's work,。
and equipping a generation to represent God's heart。
to the poor, the weak, the oppressed, and the persecuted.。
Imagine this church committed to seeing the family。
as integral to all that it's called to be and do,。
involving intentional, committed,。
and authentic relationships across all levels.。
It is the sort of place where both the young。
and the old feel cared for, supported, and equipped.。
A church where people of all backgrounds and traditions。
come to feel at home, a cultural mosaic。
that honors and embraces a richness in diversity。
that marks us as the body of Christ.。
It is a church that is willing to innovate。
and express faith creatively,。
reflecting the boundless limits of God's creativity。
as glory to him.。
A place where people gather, hungry for the presence of God,。
and passionate to see this invade all aspects of their lives,。
where they seek to develop an intelligent spiritual faith。
rooted in God's word and driven with prayer.。
A church that does not make its Sunday services。
the exclamation mark of its existence,。
but instead the comma in its ongoing sentence,。
a time of service, love, and engagement。
that inspires and emboldens all equally。
for the conversation that lies ahead.。
A church that cares, disciples, rebuilds, renews.。
This is our city.。
This is our church.。
This is our home.。
- Good morning, how's everyone doing?。
Welcome to the Vine Yunlong.。
I'm not Tim, but my name is Justin.。
I'm one of the pastors at the Vine Wan Chai.。
You're probably wondering, where is Tim?。
Where is our pastor?。
Actually, he's not feeling quite well,。
so he asked me whether I could service lead today,。
and I gladly said yes.。
Even behind the scenes, Tim, Ivan, and I,。
we have a lot to talk about,。
and we often support each other,。
so it's great to be here.。
(soft piano music)。
Yeah, just grab a seat, have a seat.。
It's good to see everyone.。
You know, every Saturday morning,。
or every Saturday before Sunday,。
I ask myself, you know,。
what's gonna happen tomorrow on Sunday?。
You know, Lord, what are you gonna do?。
And yesterday morning on Saturday,。
I did not know I would be here,。
I would get to spend time with you in Yunlong,。
and I'm just, I think it's God's thing, you know,。
just to, yeah, just really, just to bring us places,。
and I think all of you are here for a reason.。
I know a lot of you, this is your home church,。
and so, church, I just wanna ask you,。
what is your expectation as we come here。
to worship together today?。
And I just want you to think about that.。
What do you expect today?。
What are you expecting God to show you, to reveal to you?。
And so, as you think about this, church,。
can I ask you to stand?。
I'm gonna pray, and we are gonna spend this time。
in God's presence together on this beautiful Sunday,。
and so would you pray with me?。
Jesus, yeah, we just, yeah,。
we think about why we're here this morning,。
and it's not just because this is our church,。
but we are here because we want to encounter the living God.。
We want to spend time as church family。
to worship you, to hear your word today,。
to give you glory, to be reminded that you are God,。
we are your children, and so, Father,。
for those of us that we've had a tired week,。
we had a crazy week, Lord, we ask you to revive us today.。
We ask you to restore onto us peace and joy and rest,。
and Father, above all, we ask that you reveal yourself。
to all of us today, from the youngest。
to just all of us in this room.。
And so, Father, we thank you, and we just give you glory.。
We love you, in your name we pray, amen.。
Let's worship him together, church.。
(congregation laughing)。
- Thanks, Lord, thanks, Lord, send God is.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
♪ I'm caught up in your presence ♪。
♪ I just wanna sit here at your feet ♪。
♪ I'm caught up in this holy moment ♪。
♪ I never wanna leave ♪。
♪ Oh, I'm not here for blessings, yeah ♪。
♪ Jesus, you don't owe me anything ♪。
♪ More than anything that you can do ♪。
♪ I just want you ♪。
I'm sorry.。
♪ I'm sorry when I've just gone through the motions ♪。
♪ I'm sorry when I just sang another song ♪。
♪ Take me back to where we started ♪。
♪ I open up my heart to you ♪。
Sing, I'm caught up.。
♪ I'm caught up in your presence ♪。
♪ I just wanna sit here at your feet ♪。
♪ I'm caught up in this holy moment ♪。
♪ I never wanna leave ♪。
♪ Oh, I'm not here for blessings, no ♪。
♪ Jesus, you don't owe me anything ♪。
♪ It's more than anything that you can do ♪。
♪ I just want you ♪。
I'm sorry.。
♪ And I'm sorry when I've come with my agenda ♪。
♪ I'm sorry when I forgot that sure enough ♪。
♪ Take me back to where we started ♪。
♪ I open up my heart to you ♪。
Yes, Jesus.。
♪ As we're caught up in your presence ♪。
♪ I just wanna sit here at your feet ♪。
♪ I'm caught up in this holy moment ♪。
♪ I never wanna leave ♪。
♪ 'Cause we're not here for blessings ♪。
♪ We're not here for blessings ♪。
♪ No, we're not, no ♪。
♪ Jesus, you don't owe me anything ♪。
♪ It's more than anything that you can do ♪。
♪ I just want you ♪。
Sing, I just want you.。
♪ I just want you ♪。
♪ Nothing else ♪。
♪ Nothing else ♪。
♪ Nothing else will do ♪。
♪ I just want you ♪。
♪ Nothing else ♪。
Come on, sing that out.。
♪ Nothing else, Jesus ♪。
♪ Nothing else will do ♪。
♪ I just want you ♪。
♪ Nothing else ♪。
♪ Nothing else, Jesus ♪。
♪ Nothing else will do ♪。
♪ 'Cause we just want you ♪。
♪ Nothing else ♪。
♪ Nothing else, oh ♪。
♪ Nothing else will do ♪。
♪ 'Cause we're caught up in your presence ♪。
♪ I just wanna sit here at your feet ♪。
♪ Caught up in this holy moment ♪。
♪ I never wanna leave ♪。
♪ Oh, I'm not here for blessings, yes ♪。
♪ Jesus, you don't owe me anything ♪。
♪ More than anything that you can do ♪。
♪ I just want you ♪。
Sing one last time, I just want you.。
♪ I just want you ♪。
♪ Nothing else ♪。
♪ Nothing else ♪。
♪ Nothing else will do ♪。
♪ I just want you ♪。
♪ Nothing else ♪。
♪ Nothing else, Jesus ♪。
♪ Nothing else will do ♪。
(gentle piano music)。
♪ Here is where I lay it down ♪。
♪ Every burden, every crown ♪。
♪ This is my surrender ♪。
♪ This is my surrender ♪。
♪ Here is where I lay it down ♪。
♪ Every lie and every doubt ♪。
♪ This is my surrender ♪。
I will make.。
♪ And I will make room for you ♪。
♪ To do whatever you want to ♪。
♪ To do whatever you want to ♪。
♪ And I will make room for you ♪。
♪ To do whatever you want to ♪。
♪ To do whatever you want to ♪。
(gentle piano music)。
♪ Here is where I lay it down ♪。
♪ Every burden, every crown ♪。
♪ This is my surrender ♪。
♪ This is my surrender ♪。
♪ Here is where I lay it down ♪。
♪ Every lie and every doubt ♪。
♪ This is my surrender ♪。
♪ And I will make room for you ♪。
♪ To do whatever you want to ♪。
♪ To do whatever you want to ♪。
♪ I will make, I will make room for you ♪。
♪ Yes Lord ♪。
♪ To do whatever you want to ♪。
♪ To do whatever you want to ♪。
Let's sing that one more time, I will make.。
♪ And I will make room for you ♪。
♪ To do whatever you want to ♪。
♪ Holy Spirit ♪。
♪ To do whatever you want to ♪。
♪ You can do whatever you want to ♪。
♪ And I will make room for you ♪。
♪ Yes we will ♪。
♪ To do whatever you want to ♪。
♪ To do whatever you want to ♪。
♪ Jesus ♪。
♪ Jesus ♪。
♪ We will make room for you ♪。
Sing shake up the ground.。
♪ Shake up the ground of all my tradition ♪。
♪ Break down the walls of all my religion ♪。
♪ Your way is better ♪。
♪ Your way is better ♪。
♪ Shake up the ground of all my tradition ♪。
♪ Break down the walls of all my religion ♪。
♪ Your way is better ♪。
♪ Your way is better ♪。
♪ Shake up the ground ♪。
♪ Shake up the ground of all my tradition ♪。
♪ Break down the walls of all my religion ♪。
♪ Your way is better ♪。
♪ Your way is better ♪。
♪ Shake up the ground of all my tradition ♪。
♪ Break down the walls of all my religion ♪。
♪ Your way is better ♪。
♪ Your way is better ♪。
♪ I will make room for you ♪。
♪ To do whatever you want to ♪。
♪ To do whatever you want to ♪。
Let that be your prayer today.。
I will make.。
♪ And I will make room for you ♪。
♪ Yes we will Jesus ♪。
♪ To do whatever you want to ♪。
♪ To do whatever you want to ♪。
♪ Here is where I lay it down ♪。
♪ You are all I'm chasing now ♪。
♪ This is my surrender ♪。
♪ This is my surrender ♪。
(soft piano music)。
Sing all the saints.。
♪ All the saints and angels ♪。
♪ Bow before your throne ♪。
♪ All the elders cast their crowns ♪。
♪ Before the Lamb of God ♪。
And sing all the saints.。
♪ And all the saints and angels ♪。
♪ They bow before your throne ♪。
♪ All the elders cast their crowns ♪。
♪ Before the Lamb of God ♪。
Come on, lift your voice.。
You are worthy.。
♪ You are worthy of it all ♪。
♪ You are worthy of it all ♪。
♪ For from you are all things ♪。
♪ And to you are all things ♪。
♪ You deserve the glory ♪。
♪ Singing oh ♪。
♪ Oh ♪。
♪ We worship you oh ♪。
♪ Oh ♪。
♪ All the saints and all the saints and angels ♪。
♪ They bow before your throne ♪。
♪ All the elders cast their crowns ♪。
♪ Before the Lamb of God ♪。
And sing you are worthy.。
♪ You are worthy of it all ♪。
♪ You are worthy of it all ♪。
♪ For from you are all things ♪。
♪ And to you are all things ♪。
♪ You deserve the glory ♪。
Sing that again, you are worthy.。
♪ You are worthy of it all ♪。
♪ Yes you are ♪。
♪ You are worthy of it all ♪。
♪ Worthy of all praise ♪。
♪ For from you are all things ♪。
♪ And to you are all things ♪。
♪ You deserve the glory ♪。
All the glory.。
♪ Jesus you're worthy ♪。
♪ You're worthy of all praise ♪。
♪ You're worthy of all praise ♪。
Sing day and night.。
♪ And day and night ♪。
♪ Night and day let incense arise ♪。
♪ Day and night ♪。
♪ Night and day let incense arise ♪。
This is our worship.。
♪ Day and night ♪。
♪ Night and day let incense ♪。
Let our worship raise.。
♪ Day and night ♪。
♪ Night and day let incense arise ♪。
♪ Day and night ♪。
♪ Day and day let incense arise ♪。
♪ Day and night ♪。
♪ Night and day let incense arise ♪。
♪ Day and night ♪。
♪ Night and day let incense arise ♪。
♪ Day and night ♪。
♪ Night and day ♪。
♪ You're worthy of it all ♪。
♪ Yes you're worthy ♪。
♪ You're worthy of it all ♪。
♪ For from you are all things ♪。
♪ And to you are all things ♪。
♪ You deserve the glory ♪。
Sing that again, just the voices.。
♪ You're worthy of it all ♪。
♪ You're worthy of it all ♪。
♪ For from you are all things ♪。
♪ And to you are all things ♪。
♪ You deserve the glory ♪。
♪ You're worthy of it all ♪。
♪ You're worthy of it all ♪。
♪ For from you are all things ♪。
♪ And to you are all things ♪。
♪ You deserve the glory ♪。
For from you.。
♪ For from you are all things ♪。
♪ And to you are all things ♪。
♪ You deserve the glory ♪。
♪ For from you are all things ♪。
♪ For from you are all things ♪。
♪ And to you are all things ♪。
♪ You deserve the glory ♪。
Yes God, we just declare you deserve all the glory。
and all the praise and all the honor and worship.。
We bless your name.。
Church, let me pray for us.。
Father, we are here because we believe in our hearts。
that you are God and that you are worthy。
and that in your hands is life and life abundant.。
It's eternal life.。
And to you, Father, we look to you in adoration,。
in humility, in surrender.。
And this morning, Lord, we yield to you。
and we say, Lord, lead us in the seasons that we're in,。
in the valleys that we're in,。
in the mountains we are overwhelmed by.。
We look to you and we yield to you knowing, Lord God,。
you will lead us one step at a time, one day at a time.。
You'll lead our families, you'll lead our communities.。
And today, Father, we put aside everything。
that's happened this week and we ask you, Lord God,。
to have us and to lead us.。
And just as we sang this morning, you don't owe us anything,。
but we love you and we look to you.。
And so, Father, hear our prayers this morning.。
So, church, I just want to ask you。
just to let your prayers rise.。
The things that you've been praying this week, this morning,。
the things that you know the Lord has heard you,。
just give that up to him.。
This is an act of faith for us as a community。
to know that together we come together。
because we know he hears us, he loves us.。
And there's something that we cannot attain。
on our own by ourselves.。
And that's why we gather like this every Sunday,。
as regular as much as we can.。
And so, Father, you see us, you hear our prayers.。
Together we now pray, Jesus, we love you, amen.。
Amen, amen.。
Let's give him a clap of offering, we can do that.。
It's good to see everyone.。
Thank you, worship team.。
Have a seat.。
And just as we're sitting, I just want you to,。
actually, what we're gonna do first,。
I would just actually like to welcome,。
if anyone here, you're here for the very first time,。
is there anyone here at the Van Yun Long,。
this is your first time, you've come with a friend,。
you've heard of us somehow, you found us on social media,。
is there anyone here for the very first time, can we,。
would you be so bold, welcome, welcome, guys.。
Let's give them a welcome.。
(audience applauding)。
You know, we at the Vine Church,。
we are actually now two churches in,。
well, we are one church in two different locations.。
I'm normally at the Wan Chai,。
and I think a lot of us have been to the Wan Chai,。
and so today, we just, yeah, I just wanna welcome you,。
and if you want more information on Yun Long Church,。
you can just scan this QR code,。
and you can join our WhatsApp channel。
to get the latest news of what's happening every day,。
what we're doing on Sunday,。
and so, yeah, please do scan that.。
Right now, we're gonna, parents, I'm gonna,。
we're actually gonna pray as a church for our children。
before they go for Kids for Christ Service,。
and so, parents, you can bring your kids afterwards。
to the teachers who are standing on the side,。
and so, can I ask us to stand, actually?。
Let's stand together.。
Children, we're gonna pray for you.。
Let's pray.。
Father, we thank you that together, Lord God, as a church,。
we are your children, and we can,。
you're gonna teach us today just of who you are,。
and right now, we wanna dedicate our young ones to you。
as they learn together, as they fellowship,。
as they really draw close to you。
with the teachers and our brothers and sisters.。
Father, we just pray that you encounter them,。
you pour your love,。
and you pour your everything into them, Father.。
That is our prayer, and so, we pray that the end of today,。
we can gather at the dining table。
or when we're walking out from here,。
and we can talk about you together.。
That is our prayer.。
Jesus, in your name we pray, amen.。
So, parents, children, you know where to do, what to do.。
Before you sit down, maybe you can say hi to one another,。
greet one another.。
Today is Francesca's birthday, is it?。
(audience cheering)。
It is, so, do say happy birthday to her.。
We're not gonna sing to you right now,。
but yeah, it's her birthday,。
and so, yeah, say hi to one another,。
and we'll wait for all the parents to come back as well.。
(gentle music)。
♪ As I walk this great unknown ♪。
♪ Questions come and questions go ♪。
♪ Was there purpose for the pain ♪。
♪ Did I cry these tears in vain ♪。
♪ I don't wanna live in fear ♪。
♪ I wanna trust that you are near ♪。
♪ Trust your grace can be seen ♪。
♪ In both triumph and tragedy ♪。
♪ I have this hope ♪。
♪ In the depth of my soul ♪。
♪ In the flood or the fire ♪。
♪ You're with me and you won't let go ♪。
♪ But sometimes my faith is in ♪。
♪ Like the night will never end ♪。
♪ Will you catch every tear ♪。
♪ Or will you just leave me here ♪。
Wow, we already have this.。
Exactly, exactly.。
♪ I have this hope ♪。
♪ In the depth of my soul ♪。
♪ In the flood or the fire ♪。
All right.。
So, really good to see everyone.。
Actually, I was here a few Sundays last summer。
and it's just really good to see you guys.。
This is actually my first time in this venue.。
And so it's so good to finally imagine。
and not just imagine, but actually see your faces.。
Actually, I'll be back in a few weeks to preach.。
So, Tim and Ivan asked me to come。
and so I'm very happy to see you。
and so you can't get rid of me yet.。
So, hey, this morning I have a few announcements。
for us as a church family。
and I'd like to begin to actually invite Denise up first.。
She is our church administrator.。
You see her every week.。
And so, she's gonna share something。
and then, yeah, we'll go from there.。
Thank you.。
(audience applauding)。
Thank you.。
Today, I stand before everyone with a happy heart。
as I have made a difficult decision。
to depart from my role as church administrator。
of the Vine Church.。
I want to take this opportunity。
to express my deepest appreciation to every one of you.。
Serving as this role has been an incredible privilege。
and a true blessing in my life.。
The Vine Church, Yundong,。
has not only been a place of worship,。
but also a community and a family。
that has touched my heart in countless way.。
The Vine Church, Yundong,。
has always hold a special place in my heart。
and I am confident that。
our path will cross again in the future.。
I firmly believe in the continuous success。
and growth of this church。
and I have no doubt that。
the Vine Church will continue to make a profound impact。
on the life of many.。
May God's grace continue to guide and abundantly。
bless the Vine Church, Yundong.。
Thank you.。
(audience applauding)。
- We're gonna pray for Denise together as a church.。
Actually, I don't know if you know,。
but Denise has been here for a long while.。
Denise and I used to be on the same team。
and every week we would have our weekly catch-ups。
and I would secretly, selfishly ask Denise,。
Denise, you're not going yet, right?。
You're not going yet, right?。
It's like, no, no, it's not my time yet,。
it's not my time yet.。
And then this week as a church family,。
we heard about Denise's announcement。
and I just, I don't know, just to be here right now,。
it just means a lot, I think, for all of us.。
And so, church, can I ask you to stand?。
You can stretch out your hands。
and we're just gonna pray for you,。
we're gonna bless you, okay?。
Father, we pray as Denise's church family,。
even though she's stepping down from her role, Lord God,。
we are still family and she is still our sister。
and we just wanna first off thank you。
for bringing Denise to the Vine Wan Chai in Yundong。
and she's done so much, the things that can be seen。
and she's done even more behind the scenes.。
And she's such a humble person, Lord God,。
that she just does not draw attention to herself。
and she's done so much and you know that.。
And so, Father, we just thank you so much。
for the gift that Denise is.。
We thank you that she's always asking us how we're doing,。
she's bringing coffees, she's just caring for us,。
she's prayerfully just around, Father,。
and we just thank you so much.。
Thank you for, you know, the fact that we're here today,。
Denise has poured in so much into Vine Yundong.。
And so, Father, we just right now wanna just,。
as a church, gather around her。
and pray your blessing over her in the next season.。
Whatever it looks like, wherever she's gonna be, Father,。
whatever she puts her hands and minds and hearts to,。
Father, we pray that your gospel。
would be preached through Denise,。
that in her quiet but courageous, bold spirit,。
that you would be proclaimed.。
And so, Father, though we will miss her,。
we just are excited what she is gonna do。
and what you're gonna do with her and through her.。
And so, Father, we just celebrate Denise today。
with a heavy heart, but our heart is that。
you would pour your heart and your spirit over her。
for as long as, yeah, just for the days ahead, Jesus.。
In your name we pray, amen.。
>> Thank you.。
>> All right, so do take her out for coffee。
and do say hi to her, and yeah, have a seat.。
Thank you, church.。
I just have a few important announcements。
that I am tasked to bring to you,。
and two of them pertains to what's happening。
this coming up in March,。
and another one pertains to this Sunday.。
Pastor Tim told me that it is your culture。
that after service you would bring your own lunch。
and fellowship and have lunch together,。
and I think that is such a beautiful expression,。
and it's just the best way to spend Sunday afternoon.。
So if you don't have anywhere to go。
and you wanna get to know people,。
you want to reconnect, you wanna just hang out,。
so just ask you to, after service,。
go and grab lunch somewhere, come back,。
and we're gonna eat together,。
and Pastor Tim also reminded me。
of the special thing that you guys do,。
and during this lunch the goal is to talk。
to at least two people you don't know。
as well as catch up with everyone else,。
so I'm really happy to hear that.。
I hope you can come.。
I'm gonna join you later in March for this one。
if you have it on the 24th, so I'm excited for that.。
So two more announcements that pertains to March,。
and one of the big announcements is,。
do you guys know what's happening next Sunday?。
Yes, it's Vision Sunday, and so whether it's。
the wine, wine chai, or wine yunlong,。
March is our Vision Sunday, and this is a special time。
where Pastor Tim, Pastor Ivan is gonna bring。
a specific vision of what they are sensing,。
what the leadership is sensing for us as a church。
in terms of maybe God is calling us into something,。
he's calling us to think about something。
and work out something, and so this is a Sunday。
where we ask everyone coming to bring their tithes。
and offering that is beyond their normal giving。
because this is a time for us to, in faith,。
sow into the vision of what is happening here,。
and so in previous Vision Sundays, a few years ago,。
we had a vision to plant a church in Yunlong,。
and the Sunday, Vision Sunday after that,。
we started getting funds and fundraising。
for the Vine Church Yunlong, that was last year,。
and church, here we are.。
Right now, we are sitting in the generosity of God,。
the leading of God, and also the giving of everyone here。
and those in wine chai because we're a church,。
and so I just want to humbly ask you to come in faith,。
and if you say, hey, Justin, all I can give is a dollar,。
that's fine, you know, I think what's more important,。
I think what's on Tim and Ivan's heart and my heart。
and our heart at Divine Leadership。
is that you come in faith, and together,。
we hear what Pastor Tim and Ivan have for us。
as a Cantonese congregation as well as English congregation。
and how God is gonna ask us to grow, okay?。
So that's next Sunday, please come in faith,。
and then another thing that I wanna announce。
is the Sunday afterwards, which is March 9th, okay,。
from three o'clock to five o'clock,。
we are going to actually have。
a parenting workshop in Cantonese.。
So if you're a Cantonese speaker, you're a parent,。
or you know someone who could benefit。
from a parenting workshop,。
we'll have two special guest speakers。
who I'm curious to know who they are,。
and really, actually, the heart of this from Tim and Ivan。
is, you know, we are here to share the gospel,。
we're here to invest in this city,。
and one of the ways we do this。
is by hosting parenting workshops so that, as parents,。
those who have children, those who want to grow。
in our identity and role and responsibility as parents,。
we can come and support one another,。
and this is a tangible way。
in which we can support this neighborhood.。
And so if you speak Cantonese, once again,。
please, you're interested, you can get more information.。
Now, I know you're like, "Yo, Justin, I speak English."。
We're planning something in June, okay,。
for a parenting workshop in June, so stay tuned.。
Tim and Ivan will bring more news on that.。
Yes, thank you, it's a Saturday.。
Yes, thank you.。
So with that, I think I'm gonna,。
I'd like to ask the offering team to,。
we're gonna take up our weekly offering,。
and yeah, once again, there's many ways to give.。
You can give through the envelopes,。
you can also digitally give,。
and I think just on behalf of Tim and Ivan。
and the leadership, just want to continue。
just to thank you for your generosity.。
And really, once again, we are all sitting。
in each other's offering, the offering。
and the generosity of the church.。
And so, yeah, let's pray, and then,。
actually, I'm gonna ask Pastor John to come up first,。
and we're gonna pray for Pastor John。
as well as we're gonna pray for our offering.。
And so Pastor John is gonna give the word today,。
and you're a regular here, right?。
- Yeah, I am. - Yes, so.。
All right, let's pray. - I'm a regular boy.。
Father, we give you our offering, we give you ourselves,。
and we just ask that you continue to grow your bride,。
your church, your body.。
We ask you to grow you in long church.。
Together, we just, in faith, so every Sunday。
in our worship and in our relationships,。
knowing that you are leading us,。
you are preaching and proclaiming the gospel。
through each one of us.。
And so, Father, remind us how much you've given us。
so that we can be generous.。
And so, this morning, we thank you for Pastor John。
that he has prepared a word for us,。
that he's gonna preach this in faith,。
and we receive this in faith,。
knowing that you are speaking to each of us。
through Pastor John.。
So we make room in our hearts for you now, amen.。
- Thank you, Justin.。
Thank you, Justin, that was amazing.。
It's good to be with you this morning。
on this little cooler morning.。
I am a Hong Konger.。
Hong Kong is Sandra and I's adopted home。
and has been for the last 37 years.。
Its people are my family.。
My sons, their wives, and five grandchildren。
are also Hong Kongers.。
The grandchildren were all made in Hong Kong,。
well, to my knowledge, anyway.。
And they were born here, of that I can be sure.。
Don't be put off by my face.。
Yes, I am a guai lou.。
Don't be put off by my lack of Chinese.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Well, to be truthful, (speaking in foreign language)。
I love Hong Kong.。
Tim told us last week that it doesn't matter。
whether we are an expat, a local,。
a domestic helper, or an asylum seeker.。
It doesn't matter whether we are a street sleeper。
or we're chairman of HSBC.。
This is home.。
And Tim used a famous passage in Jeremiah 29 to tell us.。
And yes, as he said, it does contain the famous。
2911 fridge magnet bookmark photo frame verse.。
To seek the peace and prosperity of the city.。
He reminded us that this word of God。
was given to a people in exile,。
the Israelites, who spent 70 years, yes, 70 years,。
as strangers and aliens in Babylon.。
Tim used this to challenge us。
to become engaged in our city.。
That there was no excuse for apathetic disengagement.。
But if that was the what,。
today I want to look at the how.。
How can I, as an expat, a domestic helper,。
asylum seeker, street sleeper, or chairman of HSBC,。
how can I, as a member of Vine Yuen Long,。
contribute, contribute to the peace。
and prosperity of our city?。
You see, whereas in the first message,。
we looked at how we relate to Hong Kong and Yuen Long。
from a big picture perspective,。
this time we want to look in more detail.。
What does it actually mean to love the place we're in。
and to work for its welfare and peace?。
More especially, how can we use。
the church's resources, our faith resources,。
to bring flourishing to Yuen Long?。
How can we use our difference to serve people?。
Today we will think about our spheres of influence。
and how we can contribute to the flourishing。
and well-being of Yuen Long and its people.。
So that people will see our good work。
and praise God in heaven.。
And I'll tell you something.。
I'm gonna make it simple.。
So embarrassingly simple.。
To demonstrate, I'm turning to two household items.。
They're actually all in this one thing.。
How can you talk about salt and light。
and have it in one thing?。
Look at that, salt and light.。
Press it again.。
Yes.。
Salt and light.。
It's for you, Byron.。
(audience laughing)。
Let's look at scripture.。
Let's turn to Matthew 5.。
Let's start at verse 13.。
You, yes you.。
You are the salt of the earth.。
But if salt's lost its taste,。
how shall its saltiness be restored?。
It is no longer good for anything。
except to be thrown out and trampled under people's feet.。
You are the light of the world.。
A city set on a hill cannot be hidden.。
Nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket,。
but on a stand so it gives light to all the house.。
In the same way, let your light shine before others。
so that they may see your good works。
and give glory to your Father who is in heaven.。
Let me start by giving you some background.。
This section is from the Sermon on the Mount.。
Matthew 5, 6, 7.。
Amazing chapters.。
Jesus' audiences were the disciples of Jesus。
and the crowd who were the future disciples of Jesus.。
And what they were doing,。
they were weighing the cost of following Jesus.。
And the background to my teaching this morning。
can be found in Jesus' teaching in the Sermon on the Mount.。
And particularly his teaching on the kingdom of God。
also described as the kingdom of heaven.。
Jesus had told them in Matthew 4。
that repentance is the key to entering。
the kingdom of heaven.。
I've put it on the screen.。
From that time, Jesus began to preach,。
saying, "Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand."。
As the Sermon on the Mount continues,。
Jesus answers the important question.。
Who, who can enter the kingdom of heaven?。
Who can enter the kingdom of God?。
He answers it with what we call the Beatitudes.。
I heard that Billy Graham。
had actually called them beautiful attitudes.。
I love that.。
I heard a story of a Chinese Christian。
who came to a missionary one time and said,。
"I've learned to quote the Sermon on the Mount by memory."。
He stood before the missionary。
and perfectly quoted the sermon word for word.。
The missionary said, "That's wonderful.。
How did you do it?"。
The Chinese Christian said this,。
"I spent the last year trying to live it."。
Matthew 5, three to six tells us,。
"It is the poor and spirit, those who mourn, the meek,。
those who hunger and thirst for righteousness。
who can enter the kingdom of God."。
In verses seven to nine,。
he then describes the attitude of a kingdom person。
as merciful, pure in heart, a peacemaker.。
"We are told we will be called children of God."。
All this seems good.。
But Matthew 5, 11 tells us how the world,。
how the world out there treats a kingdom citizen.。
Jesus said, "We will be insulted, persecuted,。
falsely bad mouthed, but that we would be blessed."。
Jesus then takes it a stage further.。
I put this one on the screen, Matthew 5, 12.。
"Rejoice and be glad because great is your reward in heaven.。
For in the same way, they persecuted the prophets。
who were before you."。
My friends, we are citizens of heaven.。
We are ambassadors of Christ.。
We are heirs of the kingdom of God.。
That is because of the work of Jesus on the cross。
and our faith and belief in Jesus.。
And this brings us to our message for today.。
How can I, as a member of Vine Yuan Long,。
how can I, as a citizen of heaven, an ambassador for Christ,。
an heir of the kingdom of God,。
contribute to the peace and prosperity of our city?。
I will tell you.。
I will tell you in 14 words.。
You are the salt of the earth.。
You are the light of the world.。
You are salt and light.。
This is about our identity in Jesus.。
It's not about you trying to be something,。
but it's about what you are,。
what you already are in Jesus and in his kingdom.。
The beauty of the gospel is that God makes us his people。
and he gives us a new identity and a new purpose.。
And God calls us to figure out how to work out。
that identity in the world.。
So our identity is in Christ.。
Christ, who is the salt of the earth。
and the light of the world.。
And we, in our identity, become that in the world.。
Jesus told his disciples that despite the difficulties,。
despite the persecution,。
you are to be the salt and light of the world.。
When times are tough, we tend to quit.。
We tend to withdraw into our shell.。
We tend to go into our small community。
and be self-sufficient.。
Jesus said, "No, the citizens of my kingdom。
"have an important role to play in this world,。
"contributing to the peace of our city,。
"even in a world where there can be things。
"that are against our principles and ethics."。
Our mission, if you choose to accept it,。
is to be like salt and light in the world.。
So let's see this passage in two parts.。
The first one is salt.。
I'll repeat Matthew 13.。
You are the salt of the earth,。
but if salt has lost its taste,。
how should its saltiness be restored?。
It's no longer good for anything。
except to be thrown out and trampled under people's feet.。
You are the salt of the earth.。
The first metaphor that Jesus uses。
for our connection with the world。
or our engagement with the world。
is that we are to be salt.。
Salt has been used by humanity for over 6,000 years.。
What was the idea of salt。
in the thinking of the ancient world?。
Well, salt was a very valuable commodity。
in the ancient world.。
It was like money.。
There are records that sometimes at some places,。
Roman soldiers might receive their pay,。
their wages, their salary in salt.。
That's where the word salary comes from, see?。
Salt.。
You go to a pay table。
and they give you a little pouch with a salt.。
That's how valuable and sellable salt。
was in the ancient world.。
I can think of three major uses of salt.。
Salt as a preservative agent,。
as a flavoring agent,。
and as a healing agent.。
Let's take them one at a time.。
Firstly, a preserving agent.。
In the ancient world and even today,。
salt is used to preserve meat.。
Salted meat and fish became a necessity。
in the day before the refrigerator was invented.。
The refrigerator's only 200 years old, right?。
The very basic way is that you could pack it with salt。
and dry it up so that you could preserve the meat.。
And the idea behind salt。
is very much about preserving influence.。
Christians are to serve as a preserving influence。
in the world against decay.。
That's what Jesus is saying to his disciples.。
You are to be like a preservative in the world.。
If the world around you is wicked, arrogant, and sinful,。
the believers in its midst must act like a preservative。
and make it slow down in its progress to decay.。
We should make the world better.。
There's something distinct about us.。
God's goodness in us。
protects us against the decay of the world.。
At the cross, Jesus defeated death。
and the system of the world.。
Now we become a preserving factor for goodness.。
I mean, take a look around you.。
Do you see the growing trend。
towards dishonesty, corruption, immorality,。
violence, pornography,。
and the diminishing respect for human life?。
Whose fault is it?。
Let me put it this way.。
If meat goes bad,。
it's no point in blaming the meat.。
That is what happens when bacteria。
are allowed to breed unchecked.。
The question to ask is, where is the salt?。
My question to you this morning,。
where is the salt?。
Salt is also a flavoring agent.。
Salt is used to season our food.。
Some of you, I've seen you,。
you love your salt like anything.。
I see people salt their food。
before they even taste it, right?。
I'm British, right?。
We love fish and chips.。
But the best bit of fish and chips。
is actually the salt and the vinegar.。
(audience laughing)。
Of course.。
Salt greatly enhances the flavor of the food.。
We're supposed to be there to make society better.。
The world is supposed to be better。
because of the fact that the disciples of Jesus are in it.。
Sometimes the world doesn't understand that.。
It often persecutes believers.。
My friends,。
there is no area of your life。
that Jesus doesn't come into.。
He comes into your personal life,。
your family life, your professional life,。
your relationship with others,。
and in all those relationships,。
you are a preservative against corruption of the world.。
You must be a flavoring in your workplace.。
You must be a flavoring in your schools and colleges.。
Christians must be the salt in hospitals。
and other workplaces.。
But lastly, salt is a healing agent.。
Universally, salt is seen as a healing agent.。
The use of salt and salt water。
can be traced right the way back。
to Greeks, Romans, and Egyptians,。
all of whom used it to treat cuts,。
wounds, and skin irritations.。
Today, thousands of years later,。
a concentrated form of salt water is called saline, right,。
and is routinely used in medical.。
Saline is sterile.。
Oh, there's so much hurt, you know.。
Mistrust in our world today.。
Our world is polarized, right?。
Democrats or Republicans.。
Even here, right, yellows and blues.。
Even in churches,。
division between Protestants and Catholics.。
Local and international churches.。
Denominations, charismatics and evangelicals,。
whatever those words mean.。
I wanna make a declaration today.。
I'm declaring it over this church.。
I declare that the Vine Yuen Long。
is a bridge-building community.。
Can I hear amen?。
- Amen.。
- A tearer down of walls.。
God's healing agent.。
Salt.。
We serve as the preserving agent,。
the flavoring agent, and the healing agent to the world.。
Now let's move from salt to light.。
It's interesting.。
We are the light of the world.。
Go right to the beginning of your Bible.。
I mean, people don't carry Bibles so much these days,。
but you look, you know, go right to the beginning.。
Genesis chapter one.。
You know, iPhones are safe.。
Genesis one, in the beginning.。
Right, first words.。
In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth.。
Now the earth was formless and empty.。
Darkness was over the surface of the deep,。
and the Spirit of God was hovering over the waters.。
And God said, the first thing we see recorded。
that God said was this, "Let there be light."。
And there was light.。
And God saw that the light was good,。
and he separated the light from the darkness.。
Can I read some more verses。
to show you where I'm heading with this?。
2 Corinthians 4, 6.。
For God said, "Let your light shine out of darkness."。
Made his light shine in our hearts。
to give us the light of the knowledge of God's glory。
displayed in the face of Christ.。
1 John 1, 5.。
God is light.。
In him, there is no darkness at all.。
And then Jesus, in 8, 12, said this.。
"I am the light of the world."。
One of the seven I am's, right?。
I am the light of the world.。
So God is the light.。
Jesus is the light of the world.。
Now Jesus looks at his followers.。
He looks at you.。
You are the light of the world.。
Jesus is saying, "Just like I shine in the world,。
now I want you to shine in the world."。
And Matthew 5, 14, which we read earlier,。
you are the light of the world.。
Believers are the light of the world.。
This is hard to imagine.。
Like Jesus said these seven I am's, right?。
But the only I am that he said you are is light.。
Jesus don't say, "Hey, Kieran, you're the good shepherd."。
Or, you know, "You're the way, the truth, and the life."。
But he does say, "I am the light of the world."。
And he then says, "You are the light of the world."。
This is a great compliment,。
but also a great responsibility.。
That is a powerful declaration of the individual worth。
and mission of every believer.。
Can we just stop and reflect on that a moment?。
It's just so important.。
Jesus who said, "I am the light of the world,"。
then says, "Chapman, you are the light of the world."。
That's a responsibility and a privilege, I tell you.。
Light is visibility and radiance.。
Let's go back on these verses again.。
You are the light of the world.。
A town built on a hill cannot be hidden.。
Neither do people light a lamp and put it under a bowl.。
Instead, they put it in the stand。
and it gives light to everyone in the house.。
In the same way, let your light shine before others。
that they might see your good deeds。
and glorify your Father in heaven.。
Just four things in that verse is,。
we are the light of the world.。
We are a city on a hill.。
We are to be visible.。
And our visibility is done by action.。
Good deeds.。
To come into the light means to come out of hiding.。
We are to be visible in society。
with the light of our Lord Jesus Christ.。
The light is the gospel.。
The gospel has to radiate from our lives.。
When your light shines,。
some will accept and turn to the Father,。
but some will reject us.。
But if we're neutral,。
something is wrong with our Christian effectiveness.。
Our good deeds must radiate from us.。
What great responsibility has been given to us?。
There is not another light。
that Jesus is shining in the world.。
You.。
You.。
Are the light of the world.。
Jesus said, "I want you to be my light.。
"I want you to be my instrument.。
"You are like my body, my hands and my mouth。
"and my feet on this earth.。
"You are the light of the world."。
And we are called to keep that light burning.。
I mean, think about life in Jesus' time.。
They didn't have any artificial light。
like we do today, right?。
You know, they had oil lamps.。
You know, every house had an oil lamp.。
And these are the kind of lights。
that Jesus is talking about.。
You are the light of the world.。
Now, individually, one of these might not be too bright,。
but vine yun long.。
I believe together,。
together,。
we can light up the entire area.。
Oil is a biblical symbol of the Holy Spirit.。
We are to be like the wise bridesmaids。
who had their lamps full,。
full of oil and full of the Holy Spirit。
rather than the foolish ones.。
But as I draw towards a conclusion,。
I need to ask you a hard question.。
I'm gonna be straight with you.。
If we truly wish to contribute to the peace of our city,。
are we living as the sword of the earth。
and the light of the world?。
Or are we living just like the world?。
Living in sin, living in flesh?。
I'm not judging, by the way.。
And the good news is that we can repent。
and ask for forgiveness.。
But given this chance in 2024,。
let us commit, let's commit together。
that the Vine Church Yun Long will be holy,。
will be separated and be life and salt.。
I will pray for that for us for the moment.。
And I want to end on a positive note.。
Some things that we can do to be salt and light.。
And the first one is this, share your faith in Christ.。
One of the most powerful evangelism tools you have。
is your personal story of coming to faith in Christ.。
What I was like before,。
how I met Christ and the difference He's made to my life.。
Now, unbelievers may not be interested。
in discussing Bible verses or spiritual doctrines,。
but they will likely be willing to hear your story.。
Look for a point of connection with your colleague,。
your friend or neighbor,。
and share about the difference that you've made.。
The difference that Christ has made in your life.。
No one can argue with that.。
For the more shy.。
Can I encourage you?。
It's not about preaching.。
Some words which were wrongly attributed。
to Francis of Assisi said,。
"Preach the gospel at all times.。
"Use words if necessary."。
My personal story is that I actually reached。
more people for Christ when I was in the insurance business。
than I do as a pastor.。
You see, I spent most of my time now with Christians,。
but I didn't stand on my desk and preach a sermon.。
I didn't give out tracts and text the whole time.。
I didn't preach the whole time。
or invite them to church every five minutes.。
No, but they knew that my door was always open to them.。
It was the way I treated them.。
The smile, let's have a practice, come on.。
The words of encouragement.。
That supportive text or email, very easy to do, right?。
That offer to pray for them。
when they were going through a tough time.。
It's funny though, sometimes on the side there,。
you know, I should say, I'll pray for you about that.。
They say, "Oh, yes, yes, yes."。
And they're thinking I'm gonna pray for them。
when I get home, you know?。
I say, "Come on then, let's pray."。
We can all do that.。
Second thing is take your light where it's dark.。
A young girl once consulted with her pastor.。
She's, "I can't stick it out any longer.。
I'm the only Christian in my company where I work.。
I get nothing but taunts and sneers.。
It's more than I can stand, I'm gonna resign."。
The pastor said, "Will you tell me where lights are placed?"。
She, "What's this got to do with it?"。
"Nevermind," the pastor said, "answer my question.。
Where are lights placed?"。
"I suppose," she said, "in dark places."。
He said, "Yes, and that's why you have been put。
in a company with such spiritual darkness。
and where there is no other Christian to shine for the Lord."。
The young Christian realized for the first time。
the opportunity that was hers.。
She felt that she could not fail God。
by allowing her light to go out.。
She went back to the factory, to the office。
with renewed determination to let her light shine。
in a dark corner.。
Before long, she was the means。
of leading nine other girls to the Lord.。
And lastly, shine together as the torch.。
If we were to turn the lights out here today,。
and it was in darkness, and I got my iPhone out。
and put my torch on, that would be light in the darkness,。
but it wouldn't be very powerful.。
If we were all to take our iPhones out。
and all put our torches on, sorry,。
I didn't mean to advertise for Apple.。
If we would take our smartphones out,。
if we would take our smartphones out。
and all put our torch on, it would make a difference.。
That is such a picture.。
What strikes me about Vian Yuen Long。
and why Sandra and I love coming here is this.。
You are a community.。
You are a community.。
And the word unity is a big part of community.。
Community.。
Let us resolve to shine our torches together.。
That the lights are on at Vian Yuen Long 24/7.。
I'm not talking about Hongshan Lee building,。
the election bill would be rather pathetic,。
but our lights are on 24/7.。
Let us commit to being salt and light.。
I believe that this is the key to contributing。
to the peace and the prosperity of our city.。
As I close, I believe there will be。
a number of significant shifts.。
I see this prophetically, and please weigh this up.。
I see a spiritual earthquake.。
In the natural, as what are called tectonic plates。
interact with each other, energy is released。
as seismic waves causing the ground to shake.。
This is an earthquake.。
I see a spiritual earthquake.。
And in this spiritual earthquake, I believe we'll see the following.。
Firstly, we will see service, not selfishness.。
Can I repeat that?。
Service.。
Oh, pastor, I'm leaving the church.。
I'm not getting fed.。
You heard that so many times, right?。
It's all about me, me, me, me, me.。
Selfishness.。
Service, not selfishness.。
Living our lives for each other and the community at large。
at the expense of worrying about our own individual needs。
or even the needs of just our church.。
Philippians 2, 3 says this,。
"Be humble, thinking of others as better than ourselves."。
I believe we will see as part of this spiritual earthquake。
a healed community.。
A healed community.。
To show how ethnic, political, generational separation。
and division can be healed in this community.。
Look at us.。
Just take a look around the church.。
We're a diverse bunch.。
Different races.。
Different colour faces.。
Different backgrounds.。
Different first languages.。
In a world that is divided,。
with societies and families becoming even more polarised,。
we can become a major contribution。
in the unity part of our community.。
And lastly, we will be carriers of hope.。
Carriers of hope.。
I mean, just read your newspapers.。
Hope.。
Seems nowhere to be found these days.。
Instead of saying, "We're going to be a community,。
instead of cynicism and despair,。
we carry real hope even in the midst of disorientation.。
Even in the midst of pain in our city."。
Tim called it out last week.。
He stated it clearly.。
Fear.。
Fear has become a giant in our city.。
And its people are gripped by it.。
And are desperately lacking in hope.。
Especially our young people.。
Our contribution is hope.。
Because of what the Bible describes as Christ in you,。
the hope of glory.。
We are the hope for this city。
because Christ is the hope for our city.。
And we just don't take care of our own tribe.。
We also do work for the peace, the security, the justice。
and the prosperity of our neighbours.。
Loving them in word and deed.。
Whether or not they believe the same thing。
as we believe.。
Vine, you're love.。
I bless you.。
I bless you.。
To be salt.。
And to be light.。
Would you stand up? I'd love to pray for you as the band comes back.。
I bless you.。
Would you just put your hands out in front of you please?。
This is not a religious thing that we do.。
It's just to say to God I'm open to what you have.。
I think the word that came pretty early on in there。
and I've got to deal with it。
is repent.。
We're all sinners.。
And before we talk about going out to the world out there。
and doing all these wonderful things,。
let's just come before God.。
Say Jesus Christ,。
I believe you're the Son of God.。
Jesus Christ, I believe you died for my sins.。
Jesus, forgive my sins and。
come into my life by your Holy Spirit.。
Lord, I choose today to repent of all my wrongdoings,。
my wrong attitudes,。
my biases towards people.。
Forgive me, Lord.。
And use me.。
And Lord, together, Lord,。
we ask for an anointing to be upon this church.。
A fresh anointing.。
Hong Kong doesn't need another church.。
There are plenty of churches in Hong Kong.。
But Hong Kong and Yuen Long in this area。
needs a church who are willing to be salt and light for him.。
My friend, that's a sacrifice.。
I know when you go home today,。
you say that was a good sermon, it tickled your ear.。
And you get on with life and you live life as normal.。
Being salt and light means living differently.。
Being salt and light means having different priorities.。
It means treating people differently.。
For some of you, it means looking at your workplace colleagues differently.。
Your neighbors.。
Holy Spirit,。
think of that old song, "Give me oil in my lamp, keep me burning."。
That's what I want to pray.。
Lord, that you would fill our lamps with oil。
and keep them burning bright for you.。
I confess, Lord, I want to be salt and light,。
but so many times, Lord, I fail you.。
Lord, I pray today。
that you will help me.。
Help me.。
Help me to be salt and light.。
I wonder if you just join hands across the congregation,。
I want to pray for us together.。
Just join hands together if we can.。
Because I believe this is something we need to pray for collectively.。
Buying you long is just not to be an alternative place to come to on a Sunday morning。
because one shy is too far on the MTR.。
God has ordained this place for a purpose,。
to be salt and light in this community.。
But we have to do this together.。
Join us together, Lord,。
as your people.。
We pray now for the people of Yuen Long.。
We pray now for the people of Hong Kong.。
Help us collectively, Lord,。
to be years by years,。
and for your glory.。
Holy Spirit.。
I want to see the Holy Spirit just,。
this is like an electric current as we're going around,。
we're joined together.。
Holy Spirit just flowing through us.。
Flowing for you onto the person next to you,。
and vice versa.。
Holy Spirit, come.。
Fill me afresh.。
I surrender to you now.。
Use me for your glory, Lord, to be salt。
and light.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker,。
the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
We pray this, and Lord, we declare that you are。
the way maker, the miracle worker.。
Lord, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
This is who we are, church.。
Let's sing this. This is who we are.。
This is who we are.。
You are the salt.。
You are the light on the hill.。
You do not stop shining.。
This is who we are.。
We are the church.。
We will always give glory to our Father。
because He lives in us.。
He is our life.。
He is our everything.。
And so, Father,。
we proclaim you in our lives.。
And, Father, we just declare today。
that we are your light.。
We are your salt.。
Church, I just want to pray over you.。
I want to pray over us, that even on our worst days,。
when you don't want to do anything,。
you want to just lie in bed,。
you just don't want to do anything, you don't want to see anyone,。
you know what? You are still salt. You are still light.。
And God is still at work, just as we're singing.。
Even when I don't feel it, even when I don't see it,。
you are working, Lord. And we say, "Yes, Lord, that is our hope."。
Church, that is really our hope today.。
And so I want to just bless you and release you。
to know every moment you are shining.。
You are bringing flavor.。
You are proclaiming and pointing others to God's goodness。
in you and in us, even though we don't feel that way.。
We don't believe that all the time.。
But the reality is, this is our reality now.。
And so, Jesus, we thank you。
that you call us a sinful, selfish people。
to serve you, to love you,。
to reveal you through us.。
And you are changing us. You are transforming us.。
We don't deserve it, but you are.。
And we thank you for your mercy.。
We thank you for your grace.。
And so may we start in our homes.。
May we start in our communities. May we start in our schools,。
knowing that we are always going to be your salt and light.。
So, Jesus, we thank you, and we go out in this joy, in this peace.。
We're going to have lunch together today,。
knowing and celebrating that this is our call.。
So, Jesus, we thank you for meeting us today.。
We thank you for your word.。
We thank you that we can worship you today.。
We thank you that for those of us who can serve today,。
we thank you that we can serve you and love you.。
So, Jesus, we remember you and lead us.。
In your name we pray. Amen. Amen.。
Thank you, Lord.。
Church, thank you for joining us as always.。
Thank you for those who are serving today and for giving.。
So, right now, I just, yeah, just continue to get to know one another.。
If you want to join us for lunch, go out, grab your lunch, come back.。
Remember to pick up your kids.。
And remember, we'll see you guys next week for Vision Sunday.。
If you would like prayer, I think we have a prayer team on the right-hand side here.。
So, come up for prayer. If not, we'll see you soon.。
Pastor Tim, Pastor Ivan will be back.。
Love you guys. Amen.。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
(piano music)。
(piano music)。
(piano music)。
(piano music)。
(piano music)。
(piano music)。
(piano music)。
(piano music)。
(piano music)。
(piano music)。
(piano music)。
(piano music)。
(piano music)。
(piano music)。
(piano music)。
(piano music)。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
