Thank you, Francesca. Can we put our hands together for Francesca?。
[applause]。
And happy Chinese New Year, everyone.。
I know, once a year today, I finally look like Chinese.。
[laughter]。
That's what I was told.。
But good. How's the holiday so far?。
Are you doing okay?。
- Yes. - Yes.。
Rest enough? Or is it...。
I'm not going to ask all the parents here, I know.。
I've had that as well.。
Have you been eating a lot of, like, Chinese New Year food so far?。
A lot of food?。
Have you been receiving a lot of red packet laixi?。
No, no, no, you're not the ones.。
Those who got a lot are all inside right now.。
So probably those people here around this room,。
we are the ones who have been busy giving out red packets.。
Oh, not yet? Okay, not yet.。
Good for you, good for you.。
So my generation, when we grew up,。
I think we were very privileged.。
My generation is that we receive a lot of red packets。
because my parents' generation, they have a lot of siblings.。
So on average, my parents' generation,。
they would have four or five or six or seven,。
eight, nine, ten, like brothers and sisters.。
And so every Chinese New Year, when we go to do this,。
like, "Gong hei, gong hei,"。
and we will receive a lot of red packets.。
And that's what we really enjoy.。
That's what we look forward to every year.。
But then as we grew older and older,。
well, I would say the value of red packet kind of like,。
it start to fade away.。
I'm not talking about inflation.。
I'm not talking about the buying power of money, not that.。
But especially as we start to work,。
as we start to have our own income,。
the value of the red packet you get,。
it start to diminish.。
But what start to become more and more important,。
it's actually time spent together with our loved ones, right?。
Time like just having a dinner or having a meal together,。
just talking to each other,。
like seeing how each other is doing.。
These are the things that really matter to us in Chinese New Year.。
And we call that togetherness.。
That's the thing we enjoy most in festival like this,。
being together, right?。
And here's a picture of my family with my grandma.。
It was taken three days ago.。
It was such a precious moment for us.。
Oh, actually, Megan and Mabel,。
they're wearing the exact same outfit today again.。
But this picture was just taken three days ago.。
It was a very precious moment for me。
because just a little bit more than a month ago,。
my grandma was actually hospitalized.。
And not just that, she was in such a bad condition.。
When I arrived in the hospital,。
I thought I was going to lose her.。
It was so bad that all my aunts and uncles and relatives,。
my cousins from all around the world,。
they all flew back within two days.。
That's how bad it was.。
Everybody thought we were going to lose her.。
And so my aunts, my uncles,。
they flew in from Canada, from the UK, from New Zealand.。
Everybody just came back to be there.。
It's such a bittersweet moment。
because every day at the visiting hours of the hospitals,。
you see my entire family sitting outside the ward.。
We're there having a family gathering outside.。
Togetherness.。
I never grew up seeing all my cousins at once.。
That was the very first time.。
We cherish that.。
This togetherness, this moment where we could spend together.。
If I would say, I remember standing at my grandma's bed,。
holding her hand, just me and her,。
and I was praying, "God, this is not how I'm going to lose her.。
"She's going to die at a good old age in Jesus' name.。
"She's not going to pass like that."。
I remember I was praying very hard.。
Having this picture, three days ago,。
she was completely fine in her house.。
We were there just to eat porridge with her.。
I was like, "That's a prayer answered."。
And I give praise to God for that.。
(applause)。
And so togetherness,。
it's no doubt one of the quite high up--。
it's quite high up on the money can't buy list.。
It's important for us.。
The reason is simple, because togetherness,。
it's a fundamental aspect of human nature.。
Psychologists, they do a lot of research, a lot of studies,。
and all this research, they indicate that we humans。
were inherently social beings.。
We need to spend time with one another.。
We crave this togetherness.。
And feelings of loneliness, or being alone, or being isolated,。
it actually impacts our physical and even mental health.。
It's bad for us.。
And the research says it has a greater risk。
than smoking every day when we're alone,。
when we're lonely or isolated.。
The sense of belonging or the sense of connection,。
it fuels motivation and enhances our overall life satisfaction.。
So there's this guy, his name is Abraham Maslow.。
He is a specialist in human behavioral psychology.。
He has come up with what we now call a hierarchy of needs,。
and it's on the screen here behind me right now.。
As you can see, besides all these very basic physiological needs。
like food, sleep, water, oxygen,。
and then the next level, what we need is security,。
our safety needs, and then our love and belonging needs.。
And you will find a lot of these, a majority of our love and belonging needs。
in relationships, in our togetherness.。
And even our security, in our basic safety needs,。
you can find it through relationships as well.。
You see this togetherness, this togetherness, this relationship,。
it's how we survive, it's what we need for survival.。
And this is something very interesting,。
and this is something we think about, we're grateful for。
in times like this, like Chinese New Year.。
And in fact, not only psychologists, they will tell you。
that togetherness is important to human beings.。
If you ask one of the authors of the Bible,。
they will actually tell you the same thing.。
Not drawing from tons of research, but they drew from revelation.。
More specifically, revelation from the very being that created you and me,。
God himself.。
They will tell you how togetherness, how being together,。
how being in a community is important for us as God's people,。
as God's creation.。
And for instance, in the account of creation, in the book of Genesis,。
it recorded God says this, God looked at Adam,。
when he first created Adam, he looked at him and said,。
"It is not good for the man to be alone."。
And so he created Eve as his companion.。
And scriptures go on to say things like, "Two are better than one."。
Or even in the New Testament, it states things like,。
"Do not give up meeting together.。
Don't give up on spending time with one another."。
Scripture goes on and on and on to tell us we are social beings.。
We need to be in community.。
We need togetherness.。
We need to be with one another.。
And we've read some--oh, okay, maybe it's not on the screen.。
But we've read some of these writings from scripture。
that's more logical, more instructional.。
It tells us what to do about how God sees this togetherness.。
But there are also people in the Bible like David.。
These are artists at heart.。
And if you ask him, "Oh, what do you think about this togetherness?"。
He will answer you in a very poetic way.。
Indeed, David actually wrote a psalm about it,。
and that's what we're going to read today.。
So we're going to read Psalm 133.。
It says this, "How good and pleasant it is。
when God's people live together in unity."。
Or in the original language, it even says,。
"Look, behold, see how good and pleasant it is。
when God's people are living in perfect harmony, in unity."。
And then he tells us this,。
"It is like precious oil poured on the head,。
running down the beard."。
Sorry, I don't have that. Matt, you can...。
Yeah, yeah, he's there.。
"Running down the beard, running down the beard of Aaron,。
down on the collar of his robe.。
It is as if the dew of Hermon were falling on Mount Zion.。
For there the Lord bestows His blessing, even life forevermore."。
This is just three short and beautiful verses.。
Oh, by the way, I was telling my friends in seminary,。
like we always talk to each other, I told you that.。
We would tell each other, oh, what we're going to preach,。
like this coming week.。
I told them, yeah, I'm going to speak on Psalm 133.。
And they said, "Three verses only?"。
I said, yeah, but two weeks ago I preached on 1 Thessalonians.。
I also just preached on three verses, and I managed to overrun.。
So I said, yeah, let's just stick with three verses, shall we?。
So these three beautiful verses, it's very simple,。
but they are rich in imagery.。
Drawing from the history and the geography of Israel.。
In this psalm, David mainly uses two similes or metaphors。
to describe what the unity of God's people look like or even feel like.。
He compares the togetherness of God's people to two objects,。
oil and dew.。
But not just any random oil or any random dew.。
He was very specific.。
So why don't we talk about this oil first?。
So David says this oil is precious,。
which probably means it's quite expensive,。
and that would be rightly so.。
It is indeed the anointing oil of Aaron,。
brother of Moses, the first high priest of Israel.。
Last week we witnessed the commissioning of Pastor June,。
who was there, like Pastor June's commissioning, we were there,。
and we had all this prayer time.。
We have all the wonderful time, like Pastor Tim, Pastor Andrew,。
Pastor Ivan, they all prayed for her, said something.。
But one of the very significant things we did, or Pastor Tim did,。
was actually he took out this little bottle of anointing oil,。
and he anointed Pastor June on her forehead.。
This is a symbol of that commissioning.。
It's a gesture saying that now she is set apart for what God has for her.。
She is set apart for God's calling, for God's purpose,。
and that it's a symbol of God's selection, of God's empowerment,。
and of God's presence.。
This is a very important moment for Pastor June last week.。
It's a very important moment for Aaron when he became the high priest.。
It's a moment that is sacred.。
It says, God says, "Now I'm going to set you apart.。
You're going to be consecrated.。
Now you're going to walk in the path that I've prepared for you.。
Now you're going to do the things I called you to do.。
Now you are special.。
You are set apart just like God is holy.。
He is set apart."。
And so this is the anointing process.。
In the Old Testament, we see that whenever a king or a prophet or a priest,。
when they--before they begin their office, before they start their work,。
first they have to be anointed.。
And nowadays, when we address Jesus, we always address him as Jesus Christ.。
And fun fact, Christ is actually not his last name.。
It's his title.。
Yeah, his name is--okay, Mr. Christ--no, he's not Mr. Christ anyway.。
It's his title.。
And that title means--or it translates the Old Testament word "Messiah,"。
which you may have heard of, which literally means "the anointed one."。
So Jesus, he is the ultimate anointed one.。
But we are also called as we walk into our callings,。
as we go into what God calls us to do, we are also anointed,。
just as the Bible says.。
So this anointing, or when an individual is anointed,。
establish, equips, and empowers an individual。
with the necessary authority to lead or to serve God's people.。
And of course, you may have heard about this,。
this anointing oil, or this oil in the Bible,。
throughout it always symbolizes the Holy Spirit.。
So the act of anointing symbolizes the coming upon of the Holy Spirit.。
And if you remember what Jesus said to his disciples in Acts 1,。
he said, "You will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you."。
So through the act of anointing, the individual receives authority。
and power to carry out the work he or she is called to do,。
the empowerment, the authority from the Holy Spirit.。
So when here, coming back here to this passage,。
when David was trying to describe in this psalm that the communal harmony,。
this unity when God's people live together,。
this is a sign of consecration.。
This is a sign of the dedication of God's people to serving God,。
to witnessing in this world.。
It is through which we receive a spiritual authority and power.。
When God's people, as we come together in unity, that's the sign.。
That's our anointing moment.。
That's the moment when we said we as a community,。
we are set apart to do whatever God calls us to do here.。
That's the evidence that we're anointed to do it.。
When we read about calling and empowerment of God。
or from God in scriptures,。
nowadays in the modern day reading, as modern day readers,。
we tend to interpret it in a very individualistic way.。
Oh yes, God's calling for me, my vision, my calling,。
my ministry, my work.。
We always focus on the individual, we focus on ourselves.。
But you know, even sports player, even like those who play team sports,。
I don't know who play team sports here, like football, basketball,。
if you play team sports, even team sports player understand this one simple truth,。
that when we come together, we become something more.。
That when we come together as a team,。
a team in itself it's greater than the sum of all the players adding together.。
We become something more when we are together.。
And perhaps we do need to change our language even in church.。
Maybe instead of saying, you know, God calls me,。
we could say God is calling us as a community.。
Maybe we should say God is empowering us as his people.。
Together we are set apart and together we receive our spiritual authority。
and power to do the work of the kingdom.。
Can I get an amen for that?。
It's a corporate calling, we do it together.。
We're not alone and we're not just thinking about ourselves.。
But that's just a function of the anointing oil.。
What makes the oil so precious, so costly or even so identifiable,。
even when you're miles away?。
It's probably the fragrance.。
It smells really good, the anointing oil.。
They put some special spice and there's a special recipe。
and that makes it so costly, so expensive, but also wow, it smells amazing.。
It's like perfume.。
And here David is saying, you know, the unity of God's people,。
it gives off this very nice smell.。
It's so identifiable.。
I can tell from far away, I could notice it and people would even enjoy it.。
This fragrance, it's actually attractive.。
It's a good thing.。
Unity is attractive, it should be attractive.。
What kind of family would you want to be a part of?。
Would you want to be a part of a family that quarrels every day?。
Or would you want to be one that file lawsuits against each other?。
Or would you want to be one where families would support one another,。
they would show up when their family needs them,。
they would genuinely care for the well-being of each other?。
This is the kind of family that we want to be a part of.。
We have this desire, this craving for togetherness, for love and belonging.。
That's what we want.。
And so we're born with a need for security.。
We're born with a need for love and belonging.。
We were created for community.。
And unity or harmony will always be a fragrance to us if we're mentally healthy.。
I know there are people, well, they'd rather be alone,。
they're going through things, but if we're mentally healthy, we're stable,。
that's what we crave for, community, unity, harmony.。
The unity of God's people, it should be attractive to people around us.。
It should be attractive to men and it should be pleasing to God.。
In fact, it is pleasing to God.。
That's why David says this harmony, this unity, it's like this anointing oil,。
this precious, costly anointing oil is giving out this fragrance.。
It's an aroma, sweet aroma to God.。
And Jesus even says, you know what?。
Unity among you guys, you guys loving one another,。
that's how the world will recognize you as my disciples.。
It gives off this vibe, it lets people recognize who we are。
when we start to love one another, when we start to live in unity.。
And this oil is being poured out over Aaron's head。
and is running down his head, his beard, his robe.。
It is abundant and it is overflowing.。
And this is what God wants to do in this church community, I believe.。
What he desires, what God desires is the unity of his spirit flowing。
in the body of Christ here in the Vine Yuen Long。
so that we will walk as a community, confidently as his chosen people,。
full of his spirit and carrying his authority and power。
to serve the city around us.。
I believe that's what God wants.。
He wants that fragrant anointing of the Holy Spirit to flow over us。
as we come together in unity so we're ready to do what he calls us to do.。
And so this is a beautiful picture David is trying to paint for us here.。
But he didn't just stop here with the anointing oil.。
Instead, he carries on to use another image to describe the unity of God's people.。
He says, "It is as if the dew of Hermon were falling on Mount Zion."。
Here, this image is connected to the geographical features of Israel.。
So let me explain with--oh, map is not here.。
But let me explain this.。
Mount Hermon and Mount Zion are two different mountains in Israel.。
One is in the north.。
Mount Hermon is in the north and it's also the highest mountain in the entire Israel.。
It is a place where there are a lot of moisture.。
There will be precipitation into snow or water or even thick moisture.。
And on the other hand, we have Mount Zion.。
Mount Zion is located right in Jerusalem.。
It's a place--it's a lower place and it's a very dry place.。
And so when David says, "The dew of Mount Hermon," the moisture,。
"is falling on Mount Zion," it talks about this refreshment.。
It talks about this nourishment coming from another place,。
from the high place of Israel down to this low mountain where the temple is,。
where Jerusalem is, and it becomes a refreshment to the people there.。
It becomes a refreshment to all that lives in that area.。
It talks about the abundance of God.。
It talks about the blessings of God.。
You know, unity should look like that.。
If we understand what these two mountains, they represent,。
this high mountain and this low one, how the dew flow,。
how that moisture just flow down from this mountain to this,。
and you will see that what David wants to tell us。
is that the unity of God's people, it should be like a plentiful source。
of life-giving moisture that it enriches and revitalizes the community.。
That's how it flows down all the way to our community.。
And love and unity within the community of believers,。
the togetherness, it will transform even barrenness.。
It will transform all the dry places in our hearts, in our lives.。
It will transform and brings beauty.。
It will bring abundance.。
It will bring fertility to our lives.。
If you think I'm feeling very dry right now,。
I'm not achieving anything right now, or I'm feeling I'm so lonely right now,。
being in that community, that's how God flows His blessing into our lives。
so that we could be transformed, so that we could really flourish,。
so that we could become part of a true Christian community.。
And also, one of these mountains, Mount Hermon,。
it's in the north of Israel.。
It's near the border of Lebanon.。
And this one, Mount Zion, is in the south of Israel.。
So when these blessings or this moisture flows all the way from the north。
to the south, it also symbolizes people in different places,。
they come together, they bless one another.。
David is trying to describe a very beautiful picture of the geography of Israel,。
trying to tell us what refreshment, what flourishing,。
actually means in a community of God's people.。
Yesterday, our CG met for Chinese New Year gathering,。
and it was beautiful.。
We are always very grateful for Derek and Dorothy for hosting us.。
It's wonderful.。
But Derek also led us into a beautiful time of reflection。
and a time of sharing, just counting God's blessings in us。
through our church community.。
And so I just sat there, and I was listening to my small group members.。
I'm not going to say what they told us, but I was just sitting there listening,。
and I was like, "Wow."。
Without mentioning their names, I'll just recap a little bit.。
One of us said it was such a blessing when something happens in our families。
or in their families, there is actually someone they could immediately pick up。
their phones and message and say, "Hey, please pray for us.。
We're going through this right now."。
It's such a blessing.。
And some of us talk about how we could grow in this community。
by actively picking up some roles at church to serve。
and how we can grow in a faith, in a relationship with God.。
And some of us said how we found community.。
Yeah, I've been in some other places, but it doesn't feel right.。
Oh, yeah, this place just feels right.。
Just feel that connection.。
And as I was listening to all this sharing, I'm like, "Wow, this is that blessing。
flowing in God's community."。
That's what we're talking about.。
That's what David is talking about here.。
Yeah, surely there are ups and downs in our journeys.。
Surely there are different things going on, but being in a community。
when we're dry like Mount Zion, we can see there is still moisture.。
There is still dew.。
There is still blessings flowing all the way from Mount Hermon into our lives.。
And I'm wondering today if you are Mount Zion church, where is your Mount Hermon?。
Where are the people where blessings would flow into your life?。
Who are those people in your life? Where are they?。
Do you get to see them regularly?。
Do you get to spend time with them?。
Do you get to receive that blessing from them?。
Or maybe sometimes you are Mount Hermon and they are Mount Zion,。
like blessings flow through the other way.。
And that's important for us.。
The dew symbolizes the blessings of God as we had talked about.。
And there's more to this beauty picture.。
The comparison of unity with the dew of Hermon points to the fact that。
there is true unity here. It's like any good gifts.。
You see, this dew, they fall from heaven.。
That's how Jewish people or ancient people understand where moisture,。
where rain comes from. The source is always from heaven.。
So this dew of Hermon is like a heavenly source of blessing coming down.。
It's like any other good gifts. They are all from above.。
They are all bestowed rather than contrived.。
We cannot work hard for it. It's a blessing rather than achievement.。
So what David is telling us is that when we as God's people,。
when we gather together in unity, there is something not achieved by our human effort,。
not just by us doing harder, not just by us trying to be nicer,。
but there's a spiritual blessing from God, from heaven,。
that will fall first onto this Mount Hermon and flow into our lives on Mount Zion.。
This talks about the source of blessing.。
The source of blessing is always God. It's not our human effort.。
Even unity, unity is from God. It's not from a human effort.。
And you think, "What are you talking about, Chapman?。
If I need to be in unity with those people, I need to do something,。
I have to behave, I have to say nice things,。
if I don't like them, I just shut up.。
I have to make an effort to be in unity with other people."。
Yeah, you may be right, but let me give us another perspective.。
Indeed, it's not from me. It's from this late German theologian, Copenhaver.。
We talk about him from time to time.。
This is what he wrote in his book, "Live Together."。
He says this, "Christian community is not a human ideal,。
but a divine reality created by God in Christ."。
All right, I know, "What are you talking about? Let me unpack this."。
What he means is that Christian community is not something。
that we could achieve by our human effort,。
but rather it's a gift we should receive with a thankfulness.。
Why? I know that question.。
So he would go on to explain that Christian community exists。
only through and in Jesus Christ.。
Okay, stay with me for a moment. I'm going to explain this.。
So the simplest way to put this, I have a relationship with Jesus。
because what He has done for me on the cross,。
He died for me, He has forgiven me,。
now I could build a relationship with Jesus.。
And because of what Jesus has done for you, what Jesus has done for you,。
what Jesus has done for you, you, you, you, you, you,。
you all build a relationship with Jesus.。
And here in church, in this Christian community,。
I come here because of what Jesus has done,。
so I come here kind of like through Jesus.。
You come here because of what Jesus has done for you。
and you accepted it, you come through Jesus.。
So today if I want to come to you, Francesca,。
I am coming to you through Jesus as well.。
Because without Jesus, this community, this relationship。
wouldn't exist in the first place.。
Yeah, maybe we can be friends, maybe you have friends outside of church,。
but in a real Christian community, in a community of faith,。
our relationship, they only exist through Jesus.。
I can't be your brother in Christ if it's not through Jesus.。
I can't be your brother in Christ if it wasn't for Jesus.。
So all relationships happening in this place,。
unless you want to keep it secular, you want to keep it out of God's hands,。
otherwise all the relationships we have here,。
our Christian community, it only exists through Jesus Christ.。
Are you following? Yes.。
Right, that's quite simple, right?。
All right, so this is what he wants to talk about.。
That's why spiritual or Christian community,。
it's not by human effort.。
It's not about, okay, if I read the Bible more,。
if I sing louder in worship, if I come to church more diligently, okay,。
and then I think, I guess, I read the Bible, I try to do whatever Jesus said,。
maybe we could be friends?。
No, no, no, it doesn't work that way.。
It's not by human effort.。
These relationships exist only because of Jesus.。
It's a divine reality.。
God has paid for it. God has done it all.。
We come to each other through Jesus only.。
This relationship between us, between me and you,。
it's entirely dependent on our relationship with Jesus.。
And so we can only experience the dew of Hermon,。
the refreshment and the abundance in this community。
because of what Jesus has done for us.。
And this community exists, or it doesn't exist, without Jesus.。
It doesn't exist just based on how hard we try,。
or try to be nice and try to say all the right things.。
No, it doesn't work that way.。
That's why it should be received as a gift with gratitude.。
Jesus, I thank you. You made this possible for us,。
that I could have people, that I could call brothers and sisters in my life.。
They're my family.。
And we could love each other as any physical, biological family would.。
That's something different.。
And it's also because it is based on what Jesus has already done on the cross。
and not by our own human efforts.。
This community is not human ideal and you cannot undo this.。
It's not shaped by what we want.。
This church community is not shaped by, you know, oh, I like this.。
Oh, yeah, I like to talk like this.。
Oh, we should do that.。
It's not shaped by our ideals, our desires.。
It's shaped by Jesus and what he has done.。
And so this is a spiritual reality that is established by God。
and therefore nobody can destroy this.。
There will always be a church in this world because of what Jesus has done.。
If we are willing, we could join him.。
We could be a part of it with a heart of gratitude。
and we could learn to go to each other,。
build this relationship with each other through Jesus.。
And if we could understand the depth of the reality of these two pictures,。
you know, this Mount Hermon and Mount Zion and that anointing of Aaron,。
if we understand the reality presented by these pictures,。
then perhaps we would understand why David in the first verse,。
he says how good and pleasant it is when God's people live together in unity.。
It is good because this community is set apart,。
because it's consecrated for God's purpose.。
It is functioning exactly the way,。
or it should be functioning exactly the way God has designed and created it to be.。
Just like in Genesis 1, when God created the entire world。
and he looked at everything, everything was running just as he has designed。
and he looked at his creation, he says, "This is good."。
It is the way it's supposed to be.。
When we could come together through Jesus。
and we could put aside all those hurts, all those differences,。
all those personalities or preferences or perspectives,。
we could put all those aside in Jesus。
and try to have a relationship with one another.。
When our relationship is the way that it was supposed to be,。
how God designed it, created it to be,。
and we can look at this relationship and say, "This is good."。
And it is pleasant because of this fragrance.。
When God's people come together, this unity, it's attractive.。
When there's this fragrance and people's lives start to flourish。
because how we are supporting each other, we're loving on each other,。
we're refreshed, there's an overflowing of blessing in the community.。
It brings joy, it heals brokenness, and it lifts people up.。
When we see that, we would say, "Wow, this place, it's pleasant.。
It's such a pleasure to be in this community.。
It's such a pleasure to come here."。
People thought going to church on Sunday is work.。
You know, you have to sacrifice something, you sacrifice your holiday.。
No, no, no, I'm telling you, it's pleasant.。
It's a pleasure to be here.。
If you know what I'm experiencing with my brothers and sisters。
every week here in this building, you would know it is good, it is pleasant,。
and I want to be here.。
It's attractive.。
And church, this is the kind of community that we are called to be.。
This is the kind of community that David, he's describing here.。
Anointing oil, the Mountain Dew, pun intended.。
Like, just be together and have the sweetness, this fragrance in our lives.。
This is what he wants for us.。
But I know reality sometimes look a little bit different.。
Like I said, we have our personalities, we have our preferences,。
we have our perspectives, and then relationships start to fall apart,。
and we're all broken people inside, hurt people, hurt people.。
You understand what I mean?。
Like if we're hurt, we tend to hurt other people as well.。
We've seen communities being broken down, even church communities.。
So what should we do?。
In fact, before the sermon, during worship, we've done something so significant.。
If we know the true meaning to it, if we keep practicing that,。
that's God's antidote to all these brokenness in the world。
that will lead us back into true and genuine community.。
And that's the communion you just--you had just taken.。
You know, in order to enter into a communion,。
you have to come to Jesus recognizing that what the cup and the bread represents.。
It represents forgiveness of sin.。
So as you approach, as we approach communion,。
we're coming here with a heart of confession.。
I'm saying, "God, I'm so sorry for what I did, and I'm here to receive your forgiveness."。
And sometimes we thought about communion as this is just something between you and God, you and God,。
but God is very clear.。
If you want to come and worship me, you want to bring a gift to me, bring an offering to me,。
but there's something wrong between you and the other brother, go fix it first.。
Go and confess. Go and forgive.。
So that when you're in right relationship, we can be in right relationship as well.。
The practice of confession and forgiveness,。
it's key to being in this kind of community where broken people can actually be together.。
That's something we have to practice.。
All you married couples, you understand this.。
In order for your marriage to even last for more than five days,。
you need forgiveness and confession.。
Maybe five days is too long, I know.。
And this is what we are called to.。
We should be building a community, a space where we feel safe to confess,。
and we could be brave to forgive.。
We should be building a community that we feel safe to confess,。
and that we could be brave to forgive.。
That's what we are called to.。
I was talking to one of the members here in our church who is fairly new here.。
So I was just asking her, "Hey, what do you feel about our community?"。
Surprisingly, she told me that she spoke to different people in church.。
She felt, "Wow, people here are really open about their own personal journeys。
or their ups and downs in life.。
It's openness, honesty, vulnerability.。
It can be witnessed by talking to a few different people."。
I remember I started explaining to her how this happened.。
Apparently, you ever heard Pastor Andrew preach last week.。
He is very open and vulnerable.。
Pastor John, you've met him multiple times.。
He is a father figure to a lot of us.。
If you know like either me or Tim, Pastor Tim,。
we have all been through ups and downs in our lives.。
When we entered this community, we were completely accepted for who we are.。
We're still completely accepted and encouraged to do what God has called us to do.。
This kind of acceptance gives us a safe space to confess, to be who we really are.。
It gives us that grace to be brave to forgive as well。
because we are also forgiven in this community.。
How good, how pleasant it is when the people of God live together in harmony, in unity.。
We cannot take that for granted.。
Without confession, without forgiveness, we will never experience that.。
In this new year, in a time of Chinese New Year,。
where we celebrate this togetherness,。
where we celebrate unity in our biological families or maybe across extended families,。
today I pray that we would extend this desire for togetherness,。
for unity into our spiritual family as well.。
And we all come before God and said, "God, teach us. It's not just me.。
God, I don't just want to see a vision for myself.。
I want to see the vision for our community, for our church.。
God, I don't just want to hear the calling for myself.。
I want to hear the calling for my community, for my church."。
And perhaps you can start looking for either the Mount Hermans in your life。
or the Mount Saints in your life.。
Where are those people where blessings would flow either through them to me or from me to them?。
Who are those people around me that I should be spending regular time with?。
And let's build a space together where we will feel safe to confess。
and where we can be brave to forgive.。
Shall we pray?。
(Silence)。
Father, I thank you for all of us in this room who have had the experience of being lifted up in a community.。
Who knows what spiritual friendships actually look like.。
Who knows what connecting with a brother or sister in Christ through Christ look like.。
Father, I pray that in this new year all these relationships through you in this church will start to grow.。
We'll start to build more of these kind of relationships in this community.。
I pray that our unity will be like the anointing oil of Aaron.。
I pray that it would overflow in this community.。
I pray that even people in Yuen Long when they see us, when they hear about us,。
they will recognize us because of our unity, because of our togetherness.。
I pray that blessings will start to flow around this community。
as we come together and allow your blessings to flow in our lives.。
Father, we need to come before you and know that we're accepted。
in order for us to be brave to accept others, accept ourselves, and start to forgive.。
So Holy Spirit, I pray that you would come not just to empower us,。
but also to heal us, to fill us, to pour out the love of Father on us。
so that we could together build a community that is good and pleasant.。
I thank you, Jesus. Thank you for what you have done to make this possible.。
In your name we pray.。
