Francesca, awesome.。
You know, I can't say yes 'cause I have two daughters,。
so I'm trained.。
You know, you must say yeah, I love them equally.。
Anyway, so, hi, hi sweetheart.。
So I'm gonna put a word on the screen right now,。
and can you tell me what it means?。
All right, so, wait, wait, wait, hold on, hold on, hold on.。
So how many of you think it means this?。
Right, okay, some of you, some of you.。
You know what?。
By putting up your hand, you actually just revealed。
your age. (laughs)。
I actually learned this word about a year ago。
from Benedict and Justin.。
(audience applauds)。
In case you don't know,。
they are our core team leaders at the church.。
They've been serving ever since the beginning。
of this church plan, and they just happen to be Gen Z-ish.。
Ish?。
You know he's not, okay, he's not, okay.。
So ish, ish.。
So yes, you may refer to a cap。
as whatever I was wearing on my head,。
but let me give you a definition of Gen Z cap.。
Cap is Gen Z slang.。
That means lying, you know, or it's forced.。
And so when someone is lying, they are capping.。
And so that's why when they wanna tell you I'm not lying,。
whatever I'm saying is absolute truth,。
they will say no caps.。
Say I just taught you guys some Gen Z slang, right?。
You're following, all right?。
Now there are more.。
I'm gonna put some more on the screen.。
I was scrolling on Instagram the other day,。
and I chanced upon this, and I immediately saved this.。
'Cause I'm like, next time I'm talking to Gen Z or Gen Alpha,。
or next time when my daughter comes home from school,。
and she started like saying things I don't understand,。
I just better educate myself.。
So for example, it's time to eat.。
That's what we millennials say.。
It's time to eat.。
And Gen Z would say it's time to feast.。
And I don't even know what this is, basically.。
I'm exhausted, I'm so drained, my energy is Ohio.。
Like, what's that?。
Anyway, so what I want to say is,。
guys, generation gap, it's real.。
Can I get an amen for that?。
Amen?。
But I don't know if you've ever thought about。
why would there be generational gaps?。
Have you ever thought about that?。
This is indeed one of the questions that sociologists,。
anthropologists, cultural scholars,。
they all devote time to look into.。
And so I'm just gonna put a definition by sociologists,。
what they think about generational gap.。
They think it is a divergence in beliefs and outlooks。
between age cohorts, often leading to misunderstandings。
or conflicts between younger and older generation.。
This gap is influenced by rapid social change,。
technological advancement, and shifting cultural norms,。
which cause younger generations to adopt new values。
and behaviors that older generations may find unfamiliar。
or difficult to accept.。
Let me give you an example.。
On IG, I don't know why these videos keep popping up,。
but there will be two guys, actually the same guy,。
but he filmed two version of himself.。
He'll stand like side by side,。
and this guy would say he's a millennial,。
this guy is a Gen Z,。
and they start putting outfit on themselves,。
and a millennial would dress up like me,。
like skinny jeans, and everything has to be tight,。
unless you're like me, growing in your body size,。
you can't wear something too tight.。
But whatever the Gen Z is doing,。
they wear something super loose,。
and if you wanna know how that looks,。
you can look at Pastor Ivan at the back there.。
(audience laughing)。
That's how Gen Z would dress like.。
He's young, right?。
He dress young.。
Anyway, but for my generation,。
we thought, oh, we don't like that kind of fashion.。
Like that's ill, like we like this.。
So there are things that the older generation cannot accept.。
They thought, that's not good, that's no good.。
That's not nice, that's not beauty,。
that's not aesthetics,。
but the younger generation may embrace it.。
On the other hand, and this sometimes would become。
what sociologists call an institutional age segregation.。
So this would happen in a society。
when different age groups,。
they tend to, they're separated in different social spheres.。
Let's say it affects how we socialize.。
It affects how our identity is formed.。
It would affect the way we interact with our family members,。
our family dynamics are impacted.。
Sometimes it affects a workplace culture.。
If you know, I don't know,。
like we don't have this at church.。
We're all similar age here,。
so we don't experience this at church here,。
like among us.。
(laughing)。
So it affects your workplace culture。
and even societal cohesion.。
In the last decade, I guess,。
when social media really became a thing。
and we see these polarized views。
or these like institutional, social,。
or age segregation is happening online.。
And so whenever there's an issue,。
a social issue, political issue,。
or just food issue, whatever,。
and you would see polarized comments。
and people would really like get different,。
they get into different camps。
and you see that kind of barriers between different people.。
And we may or may not have experienced。
a little bit of that in the last decade。
or even in recent years.。
So at first I thought, yeah,。
if generational gap is a result of rapid social change。
and the technological advancement,。
I thought, oh, so this phenomenon must be new。
in the long human history.。
It must be something quite reason.。
And man, I was so wrong。
when I started researching on this topic.。
I found that the idea of this generational gap。
expressed in this concept that young people today。
are not as good as the previous generation.。
Now, if you grew up in a Chinese community like me,。
then we hear that all the time,。
but I don't know about a more westernized kind of culture,。
but this kind of thought and idea,。
if we try to dig it up in history,。
we can find this same idea。
that young people don't measure up。
to their previous generation.。
We found that in ancient Greek writings,。
I'm talking about the sixth or seventh century BC.。
That's how old this idea is.。
That's even way before Jesus was born.。
And so this generational gap。
or the older generation looking down on the next generation,。
it has always been a part of human history.。
So now I'm thinking about this.。
If I look deeper,。
although it may appear to be a social problem at first,。
but would it be,。
actually there's a spiritual problem at play here.。
And so if I look at the Bible,。
the earliest account of division。
among a large group of people。
is recorded in Genesis chapter 11。
in a place called the Babel.。
That was the place where people。
were trying to build a tower。
so that they could build a name for themselves,。
but God disrupted them。
and disrupted their plans by confusing their language.。
And so they could no longer understand one another.。
And they immediately, they break up,。
they got separated into different groups.。
Because of that,。
like humans started to experience division through language.。
And then it becomes cultures or ethnicity.。
And then we have different pockets of people。
in different ethnicity, in different languages,。
in different cultures.。
And that becomes how people get separated in the first place.。
Of course, in the fallen human nature,。
we see things just get worse and worse and worse.。
We see more and more conflict.。
We see more separation between different people,。
between different groups, between different nations.。
If we look at that,。
this kind of separation or division。
among cultures and language,。
we can call that a horizontal division, if you will.。
But humanity, we also experience a vertical kind of division。
and that's generational gap.。
And both of these divisions or separations,。
they remind us not only how broken relationship。
with one another would look like,。
but we also reminded that in the first place,。
our relationship with God was also broken.。
All of these kind of broken relationships or divisions,。
it disrupts the plan or intention of God。
to bring unity among people when he first created us.。
Of course, we have the good news, right?。
And if you've been following us,。
we talked about this good news a lot.。
Paul beautifully explained that in Ephesians 2.。
He says, Jesus broke down the walls,。
the wall of hostility between two people group,。
like the Jews and Gentiles.。
And basically he's reconciling both of them to God。
through the cross in one body.。
So Jesus, we see that he has the power to remove barriers.。
He first removed the spiritual barrier。
between us humans and God.。
And on the cross, he didn't just do that.。
He also removed the horizontal barrier。
between people groups, between cultures。
and languages and ethnicity.。
And we know that, although Paul didn't write about it,。
the power of the cross actually have power。
to remove the vertical, the generational barrier as well,。
particularly that inside the body of Christ.。
And you may ask, how did that happen?。
If you were around during Chinese New Year,。
I was talking about another passage in the Bible,。
Psalm 133, and I mentioned there's this guy,。
this German theologian, his name is Bonhoeffer.。
And he explained this beautifully.。
He said, this kind of unity,。
this both horizontal and vertical unity,。
it's not a human ideal.。
It's not something we made up.。
It's something that was made possible。
because of the cross of Jesus.。
And we have to know this.。
Today, I come to my friend, Derek, let's say, our new elder,。
I come to my friend, Derek,。
not just because we're both like good looking guys。
and we like each other and we have similar taste of food。
or music or whatever, but because we're both saved by Jesus.。
Jesus died for him, Jesus died for me,。
Jesus saved him, forgave him, Jesus saved me, forgave me.。
And so today, when I built my relationship with Jesus。
and he built his relationship with Jesus,。
through Jesus, we could reach each other.。
That's how we build our relationship.。
You know, that's why in the church, in the body of Christ,。
if we ever like said something。
that we don't like about each other,。
or we wrong each other,。
Jesus' blood has covered all that.。
His blood didn't just fix the relationship。
between us and God,。
Jesus' cross fixed the relationship between us。
inside his body, that or whatever separation。
that was caused by our differences in language,。
our differences in culture, our differences in ethnicity,。
Jesus has fixed all that.。
But Jesus also fixed that generational gap,。
that generational barrier.。
If we come to one another in Jesus,。
then we can experience true harmony,。
we can experience true relationship,。
relationship that would bless our soul,。
that's so deeply, and that's what it is all about.。
And we gotta know this,。
the way to show that we know the real forgiveness of Jesus,。
we know that we're forgiven by God,。
is simply to walk in that kind of forgiveness,。
starting to forgive one another around us.。
And how do we show that we truly understand what it means。
to have a God who fully understand us and accept us?。
It's simple, we just seek to understand。
and seek to understand and to accept those around us,。
despite our differences.。
And that's how we show I truly understand。
what God has done for me, what Jesus' cross means for me.。
In the last couple of years,。
we witnessed the brokenness in many relationships,。
in a city around the world,。
particularly some of the intergenerational relationships.。
I've heard stories, even from people in this room,。
I know how hard things have been between generations,。
between even inside families.。
And I know that the brokenness brings a lot of heartache,。
particularly if it's between those of us。
who should be closest to us in our family's neighborhood,。
we saw that in a city in the world as well.。
And I personally, no joke,。
I personally experienced some of those tensions as well,。
with people that are closest to me.。
But when I reflect on that, and if I'm honest,。
when I think about what happened。
in the last couple of years,。
I think sometimes my tendency。
is to only to accept those who accept。
or agree with my opinion.。
Let me say that again, I realize I have this tendency。
when I'm in different relationships,。
I tend to only accept those。
who would accept or agree with me,。
or accept my opinion.。
And there is a problem, if this is the case in the church,。
in the body of Christ,。
the problem would be this kind of mentality。
that we only accept those who accept our ideas, our opinion.。
If this is the case in the church,。
then the body of Christ or our unity。
can only be achieved, or will only be achieved。
by uniformity.。
Only when we all like to sing the same songs,。
when we all like to read the same book,。
when we all like to dress the same,。
like me and Ivan, we can't dress differently,。
we have to all have the same favorite color,。
same favorite outfit,。
we have to like the same instruments,。
we have to have everything the same,。
everybody will have to have this uniformity。
before we can achieve unity.。
If we only accept those who would accept what we like,。
who would accept our opinion.。
And apparently that cannot be the case in the church.。
We don't stand behind this kind of unity.。
If you've been here in the Vineyard long, long enough,。
you know that we champion another kind of unity。
and that's unity in diversity.。
We wanna see the coming together。
of people from different languages,。
from different cultures, from different ethnicities,。
and even from different generations.。
We wanna see true unity in our diversity。
because we know that Jesus。
destroyed this horizontal division between cultures。
just as he has destroyed this vertical division。
between generations.。
He reconciled different ethnicities and cultures。
and he also reconciled different generations into one body.。
So the body of Christ is not just multi-ethnic,。
not just multicultural, it's also multi-generational.。
When the early church,。
they was trying to express this truth,。
they use a term called communion of saints.。
It carries a meaning that we have a church。
that is across time, across the present,。
the past, present, and future.。
We belong to one timeless family in Christ.。
That's what communion of saints means.。
We're in the same church as with those。
who are in the earliest days,。
who have seen Jesus before,。
but we're also in the same church,。
in the same church family with those who are yet to come.。
And not only that, if we look at the Bible,。
we would see that God reveals himself。
as the God of the generations.。
You see, generations has always been part。
of God's original plan, has always been his plan A.。
I know we've read this verses here。
like maybe 10 million times,。
but I'm still going to read it again.。
Genesis 128 says this,。
"God blessed them, Adam and Eve,。
who were made in his image,。
and said to them, 'Be fruitful and increase in number.。
Fill the earth and subdue it.'"。
You see, when God created Adam and Eve,。
we heard about that, we know that God intended them,。
for them to be his co-rulers,。
his representative on this planet.。
But God never intended for just the two of them,。
just Adam and Eve to do it.。
He expected them to reproduce and multiply,。
make more babies in their image.。
And they were made in the image of God,。
and they make more babies who just look like them.。
And together, there'll be generations。
and generations of humanity walking alongside God。
to rule over this earth.。
That was the original plan.。
Generations has always been the original plan.。
Even when a human, like after the fall,。
we see that this original blessing,。
God never took it away.。
He's still blessing generations and generations.。
And then we see when he made a covenant with Abraham,。
he didn't just make a covenant with Abraham himself.。
He said, "I'm gonna make a covenant with you。
"and with your descendants,。
"the generations who will come from you."。
God made a covenant with Abraham,。
signed a contract with him,。
and that's a generational contract,。
it's a generational covenant.。
And so when God finally revealed himself to Moses,。
he said, "I am the God of Abraham,。
"I'm the God of Isaac, I'm the God of Jacob.。
"He is the God of generations."。
And this is how he choose to reveal himself。
to different people at different time.。
And we have to know that his promise,。
his covenant, his plan and his work。
doesn't just cover one generation,。
but it spans across many, many generations.。
But then we come across a verse in the book of Acts,。
which was actually a part of a sermon of Paul.。
He was talking about King David。
in Acts 13, verse 36, he says this,。
"Now, when David had served God's purpose。
"in his own generation, he fell asleep.。
"He was buried with his ancestors and his body decayed."。
You know, David was a wonderful man,。
he achieved a lot of things,。
he united the entire nation of Israel, the 12 tribes,。
and he brought the Ark of Covenant,。
the presence of God right into Jerusalem.。
He did a lot of things.。
But when he wanted to build a home or a temple for God,。
God says, "No, no, no, no, no, that's not your assignment.。
"That's your son's assignment.。
"I intend for your son to do that.。
"You only have to make the preparations,。
"but you don't have to build anything.。
"That's his assignment.。
"It's for the next generation, it's not for you."。
So for David in his generation,。
they still worship no matter how much they love God,。
they still worship God in that tent.。
It was for Solomon's and his generation。
that finally built that temple。
and worship God day and night,。
bring sacrifice to God in that temple.。
You see, God has specific purposes for his people。
to fulfill within the context。
of their particular time and circumstances.。
God's people, for example,。
I know I'm oversimplifying this,。
but bear with me for a moment.。
I know for God's people,。
perhaps in my grandparents' generation,。
I think their mission was to show the world the love of God,。
to show a war-torn world,。
a world that experienced two world wars,。
a world that was really destroyed,。
torn apart by the cruelty of war.。
Their mission was to show this world。
what the love of God looks like,。
what hope actually looks like.。
Maybe your family was destroyed,。
maybe you got separated,。
maybe your loved ones died in your arms,。
but there is still hope and you can still experience love.。
I believe that's part of their mission in that generation.。
And perhaps in my parents' generation,。
the church, what they had to do was to stay firm,。
stand firm in God's truth and his word,。
witnessing God's truth in a world。
that is rapidly secularizing.。
When people are turning away from the Bible,。
turning away from God,。
their mission is to witness God and his truth。
and his word in such a generation.。
And what about our generation, my generation?。
We've witnessed some of the craziest。
technological advancement in the last,。
I don't know, how many hundred years.。
First, we have computers, internet,。
and then we have iPhones,。
sorry for Android users, but I'll count you in as well.。
And you have social media, and now we have AI.。
It completely changed our world.。
The way we talk to one another, the way we think,。
the way we work, our lives are turned upside down right now.。
You see the new pope that who was just recently elected,。
he chose his name Leo, he's Leo XIV.。
He said part of the reason was because Leo XIII。
was the guy who was pope during the Industrial Revolution。
and he saw all the societal problems。
that the world was facing during that Industrial Revolution。
or technological advancement in that time,。
and he felt he, as the leader of the church,。
or as the church, they have to stood up。
and help the world face those problems.。
And so now Leo XIV, the new pope, he said,。
"I see what the world is going through right now。
"with AI, with all the technological advancement.。
"I know all the ethical issues,。
"all the challenges that we're facing."。
And then by naming himself Leo XIV, he said,。
"I think the church has to stood up in such a time as this.。
"Every generation has a specific purpose。
"at a specific time or specific circumstances."。
God is using his church, his people in this world,。
and every generation, they will have to serve God's purpose。
in their own generation.。
We all have a small part to play in the bigger picture,。
a much bigger picture.。
And different generations certainly have different parts.。
Perhaps what would be helpful is to recognize the fact。
or manage our own expectations。
so that we were not hoping others to do our parts。
or expecting them to do it the way we do.。
I hope you get what I mean.。
Like as the church, I hope we're here together,。
we have different generations gathered around here。
that we know every generation,。
they may have their own assignments。
and their purpose, and perhaps we're not trying。
to expect different generations。
to do things exactly the same.。
I think that's where we can start。
when we talk about how generations can come together.。
And across different generations,。
as we're playing these different parts,。
as we're shaped by different experience,。
and we know that we're quite likely。
we would do things differently,。
we even say things differently.。
We say different words when I try to tell you I'm hungry,。
like my stomach is Ohio, is that what you mean?。
I can't even remember that,。
but we do think, we say things differently,。
we do things differently, and we just have to accept that.。
It's okay to be different.。
We talk about unity and diversity, right?。
And I think sometimes I see in the global church。
or just churches in a city,。
sometimes we think we must do things the same way。
we have been doing things like that.。
We should continue to do things that way.。
And I also see that some emerging generations,。
they say this is the way, this is the new way,。
and this is the only way to do things.。
Can I say both are correct and both are wrong.。
We have different purposes,。
we serve different generations,。
we use different methods,。
and we can do it differently,。
and still we're part of the same big picture here.。
And again, if we only accept those who are accept。
or agree with our opinions,。
our way of doing things, our standard of good and bad,。
what sound nice, what look nice or bad,。
and if we're like that,。
we're saying that unity can only be achieved by uniformity.。
If we're trying to make everybody join。
just only one same event at a particular time,。
and that's the only way,。
that's how our church would do things,。
and we're trying to say uniformity。
is the only way to achieve unity.。
But we can celebrate our differences。
because that does not undermine the work of Jesus。
that he has accomplished on the cross.。
Let me say that again.。
When we do things differently,。
when we have different expressions here,。
that does not undermine the work of the cross。
that Jesus has accomplished.。
In fact, when we can do things differently。
and we can accept that,。
that's the way to show we are really together,。
and we really accept one another.。
And we're not pursuing unity and uniformity.。
Instead, let me read from Ephesians 4。
where Paul shares about the goal of our unity.。
Let me read this.。
So Christ himself gave the apostles, the prophets,。
the evangelists, the pastors and teachers。
to equip his people for works of service。
so that the body of Christ may be built up。
until we all reach unity in the faith。
and in the knowledge of the Son of God。
and become mature,。
attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ.。
So Jesus has given us different gifts through his spirit。
so that his body, like the church,。
the multi-ethnic, multi-generational body of Christ。
can be built up until we all reach unity in the faith。
and in the knowledge of the Son of God.。
And this is the first thing that all generation。
of God's people will have in common,。
the same quality of faith and relationship with Jesus.。
If we really wanna be united, you know what?。
We're supposed to be united in our faith.。
We're supposed to have the same kind of faith,。
same quality of faith that we share with Jesus,。
or in Jesus.。
And that's why sometimes I really like listening to stories.。
I remember there were times like when I was going through。
a crisis on my own, or I could be a little bit more specific,。
maybe a financial crisis on my own,。
and I hear people talking about。
how they've been through a journey like that,。
that someone in his ministry, he left full-time ministry。
and he had no income at all for an extended time。
and he was really struggling.。
And then somehow God just met his need in the end.。
And I met this guy and he was just,。
this is the first time we met,。
like he just started sharing that story.。
He didn't know about my situation,。
but as he was sharing that story,。
I felt this kind of faith starting to arise in me,。
that at first I look at what I do not have,。
I look at my fears, but then as he was sharing,。
as he was sharing his story of faith with me,。
I see that my faith level rise inside of me.。
I think my faith level is rising。
to a little bit more closer to him.。
I'm reaching a little bit more closer to unity。
in my faith with my brother in Christ.。
We're supposed to be united in our faith。
and our knowledge of Jesus.。
You know, if you really,。
if we really have the same kind of faith。
and we really know Jesus so well,。
it's hard not to be united actually.。
And then after that, Paul says, he talks about maturity.。
And we've talked a lot about this here,。
maturity, the fullness of Christ.。
We talk about this, right?。
Maturity doesn't just come with age.。
You know, if you are young and you lie a lot,。
you're a young liar.。
If you are old and you still lie a lot,。
you're an old liar.。
And an old liar and a young liar,。
it doesn't matter, you're still a liar.。
I mean, you're still struggling。
with not being able to tell the truth.。
So what I mean is you can grow old.。
Growing old is inevitable.。
I believe I've preached this here,。
but growing up is always optional.。
So we can keep growing older and older and older,。
but we never mature.。
That is completely possible.。
I'm sure there are a lot of people around us。
that would prove this right.。
I'm not here to say anything against them.。
I'm just saying that this, it's reality.。
We grow old, we all do, but we don't always grow up.。
We don't always mature.。
But if we really mature in a personal relationship。
with Christ by accepting his words。
as the ultimate authority of our lives,。
as we start to follow him,。
as we give our lives to follow Jesus,。
accept, be obedient to his word,。
and you will start to see this kind of maturity。
growing in you because if you really follow Jesus,。
you will start to put others before yourselves,。
and you will start to take up responsibilities,。
and you will start to be sacrificial in your life,。
and you will be more and more and more like him,。
and you will have the fullness of Christ in you.。
And when you have the fullness of Christ in you,。
and I'm getting there, I'm getting more mature。
and having more of Christ's fullness in me,。
there, that's where we unite.。
That's where unity lies.。
I'm telling you, if we are all getting more like Jesus,。
growing to be more like him,。
unity is just a byproduct.。
It will happen naturally.。
When we all get there to be like Jesus,。
more like him, you will find unity is natural.。
That's where we're called to.。
Paul says, you know what?。
This, we're supposed to be united in our faith,。
in our relationship with him,。
with our knowledge in him,。
and in our maturity, becoming more like him.。
God doesn't need us to be united in a way。
that we all talk the same, we wear the same clothes,。
we speak the same language,。
or we sing or like the same worship song.。
God doesn't need that.。
He wants us to be united in our maturity,。
in our obedience to his word, and in our Christ-likeness.。
He wants us all to look like Jesus.。
He wants every single generation in the body of Christ。
to look like Jesus, to speak like Jesus,。
to walk like Jesus, so that we can represent Jesus well。
to our generation, so that every single generation。
on this planet could have a taste of who Jesus is.。
That's how our unity works.。
God is at work in every generation.。
We all get to be a part of that work,。
and serve God's purpose in our generation.。
But you may wonder,。
oh, there are different generations here overlapping.。
You know, we have the slightly more mature,。
slightly more like older ones,。
we have the slightly more younger ones.。
We're all like here, we're different,。
but we're all here.。
Does that mean we'll just do our own thing, you know?。
Never bother with one another,。
just, you know, just, in Cantonese,。
we call it gi gi gu gi gi, like, yeah, yeah.。
You just, basically, you just do your own thing.。
Like, don't bother me.。
Do we do that?。
Of course not, right?。
Otherwise, we wouldn't write this sermon series,。
we don't preach this.。
But generations are not meant to work or walk alone.。
We are created to walk together, and build each other up.。
Surely, a larger part of that responsibility,。
when it comes to, like, building generations,。
coming together, building each other up,。
of course, sometimes that responsibility。
may lie a little bit more on the older generation,。
'cause they're further down the road,。
they probably have experienced God a bit more.。
They have tasted the goodness of God,。
they have followed Him,。
they have experienced Him a little bit more,。
and there's something you can actually share。
with the younger generation.。
And that's what we do, right?。
We try to share with them what we have experienced。
in our journey with God.。
But let me highlight some scriptures here.。
In Psalm 145, verse four, it says,。
"One generation commands your works to another.。
"They tell of your mighty acts."。
You see, it's a lot of storytelling,。
talking about what God has done.。
And before we moved into this building,。
one of the last sermons we preached in EIS。
was on this passage in Deuteronomy 6.。
It says this, "When your sons ask you in time to come,"。
like, why are we following all these,。
like, commandments and laws?。
Why are we doing this?。
And God asks the people of Israel to tell the story again,。
to tell the story of Exodus,。
to tell them what God has done, has achieved in their lives,。
tell them how loving our God is,。
tell them how powerful our God is.。
It's through our storytelling。
that we're trying to let the next generation know who He is,。
what He has done, and how He will do it,。
and how much He loves us.。
You see, the Bible, we call the first five books,。
like the Torah, means the law,。
but the Bible, in the Old Testament,。
the author chose, or God chose to reveal His law。
to His people in stories.。
All these laws are embedded in narratives, in stories,。
because God doesn't want to take the law out of the story.。
He wants to tell you, He wants you to know。
when He asks you to do something,。
He wants you to know what He has done before.。
He wants you to know who He is.。
And so, if you are the slightly older generation,。
one of the things you can do is grab someone younger,。
tell some stories.。
Of course, you can tell him, you know,。
what you think it's appropriate to do,。
what you think will be good for that person,。
but tell him some stories, share your life.。
We're not here, you know, we're not school。
just telling people principles and rules and all that.。
We're communicating our life stories.。
That's how life can impact another life.。
We're here to share stories, and if you are,。
you have the privilege of listening to some stories。
of someone else, this is what I would suggest you to do.。
You see, I did spend some money to learn to be a coach.。
I learned coaching.。
Coaching is all about asking questions,。
and I find it incredibly useful.。
Every Wednesday before our Alpha session,。
I basically, every Wednesday I go through tons of questions。
with my hosts and helpers.。
Asking questions, it's super beneficial.。
If you're hearing a question, hearing a story,。
one of the questions you can ask is,。
so, would you like to tell me, or could you tell me。
what makes you think that, or what's the reason。
behind your certain decision, this certain thing,。
this certain thought, or you said this, you did this,。
what was the reason behind?。
And one of the other questions that would be super helpful。
if you want to learn about someone's story is that,。
so, in this event, or in this incident, what did you learn?。
What did you learn about God?。
What did you learn about yourself?。
And I can't tell you how much I gain from being in rooms。
with more mature people, and I just listen to their stories。
and I start asking these questions.。
I can't tell you how much I've learned,。
I've gained from those conversations.。
Generations were supposed to tell each other,。
hey, communicate with one another, saying,。
hey, this is what God has done before.。
So, if you follow him, you can expect you'll experience that.。
But let me also highlight some stories from the Bible。
where we have a young Samuel, God used a young Samuel。
to speak to an old Eli.。
God also used a young King Josiah to lead an entire nation.。
It's totally possible for God to use younger generations,。
to use younger people to speak into older people's life.。
The question is, am I ready?。
I'm just looking.。
You know, every time, right, my daughter is,。
especially Megan, now she's in a stage。
where she likes to correct people.。
Sometimes it's just small things like,。
daddy, you shouldn't put your cup here,。
you shouldn't put your pens here,。
you shouldn't put your, I try to remind myself,。
I must learn to listen.。
It's not because that I'm allowing her to be bossy,。
but I know that God will surely speak to me。
through my daughters.。
I need to build a habit of listening。
to the next generation as I grow.。
That's super important in our lives.。
I think if we could do that,。
we will be the one who benefit from it as well.。
And this is where I'll come back to Paul's letter.。
You see, Samuel could minister to Eli,。
could speak to him because the Holy Spirit was on him。
and he had a gift of, he has a prophetic gift,。
and he was operating in the gifts of the Spirit.。
So let's go back to, yes, thank you.。
Christ himself gave the apostles,。
the context was saying Christ has given the church。
a lot of gifts.。
And these are some of the gifts,。
apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors and teachers,。
these are spiritual gifts.。
These are not just roles to be filled with a job,。
these are spiritual gifts and offices as well.。
And younger generation,。
although they may not be experienced,。
although they may not be as mature,。
but they could still operate in these kind of gifts.。
And this is how they could also come alongside。
the older generation and bless them.。
And so we see we have a lot here to bless each other, church.。
Whether you have more experience in your walk with God。
or God has given you spiritual gifts to bless his people,。
there's so many ways that we can walk together。
that we can bless one another.。
And that's why we, as generations,。
we're supposed to be walking, journeying,。
moving forward together.。
And that's the heart of this church.。
In the last two years,。
we've been building a community that's cross-cultural,。
that's cross ethnicity.。
We've been building a community like that.。
We have different ethnicity, languages,。
cultures represented here.。
But now you know the vision of the church this year.。
We want to see generations being here as well.。
But generations,。
I know I'm not just talking about the younger ones,。
of course, that's what's happening this afternoon.。
But I'm sure if anyone wants to bring。
a grandpa and grandma here,。
we would love that as well.。
Like we want all generations being represented in this body。
because that's what Jesus had made possible.。
This is what he died for,。
for a church that's like this,。
cross-cultural, ethnicity and language,。
and also multi-generational.。
This is the kind of church。
that God has called the Vineyard Long to be.。
And this is how we're gonna relate to one another.。
We're going to serve each other with our experience,。
our walk with God, with what God has taught us.。
We're also gonna serve each other。
with the gifts that God has given us.。
Can I get an amen for that?。
Okay, since you said amen,。
I'm gonna ask you to do something.。
The worship team is gonna come back up,。
and they're gonna play some music in the background.。
As a response to the word today,。
not to me, but to what you have heard from God,。
I invite you to look around this room,。
find someone you would think he or she。
is from a different generation.。
I'll leave that to you.。
Yeah, I'm not good at that.。
You all look 18 to me here, or 20, all right.。
I don't know, but I'll let you do it.。
Find someone you know there from a different generation.。
Just pray for one another, bless each other.。
And if you could, stay for the last bring your own lunch。
and share stories, that would be awesome.。
Shall we just find someone and pray for each other。
as we close right now?。
Let's do that.。
I love you all.。
Let me, yeah, Father, we're called。
to be this multi-generational, multi-ethnic,。
multi-cultural church, and Father, we love that.。
We love you.。
Bless the time, bless the relationships here,。
bless the connections in Jesus' name.。
Go ahead, church.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
