with us church. Go ahead and have a seat. Well, good morning everybody. Good morning。
those of us who are online. Look, hey, we are full. So before we get started, if there。
is a seat next to you, slip up your hand because we do have quite a few people who are either。
standing in the back or in the overflow. So keep your hands up. And if you are there,。
come on, make your way over. You don't need help. Just walk on through. We have a couple。
seats over here. We have like four or five over here. We've got like one or two over。
here. We have Hudson over here who's loud, but you can sit next to him too. It's okay.。
Go ahead and make your way in. Thank you guys for joining us and being a part of this community。
today. This is I think week four or five or three of our sermon series, Awaiting. And。
I wanted to start off by telling you a little bit about me. I am what some might call a。
hipster. Look at how I dress. I do things the hard way. Yes, I am a hipster. I'm not。
going to deny it. It's who I am. And one of the ways I'll show you about my hipsterness。
is in one of my hobbies. Now, most of us here have phones and on our phones we have cameras.。
And that normally is good enough to get a photo, right? So if you need a photo, pull。
out your iPhone or whatever phone you use, take a photo, carry on, live your life. If。
you're fancy about it, you can buy a nice fancy camera, pull that out, take photos.。
But if you're a hipster, no, no, no, no digital camera will do. Only film camera will do,。
right? This is an old film camera and a part of my hipsterness. I have decided to really。
dive deep into the film camera world. I'm obsessed with film photography. This is one。
of the films that I shoot very often. My wife actually got it for me for Christmas. This。
is the magical portrait 400. It makes everyone and everything look good. The reason I know。
this is because I am only 35 years old, which means I have Instagram. And on my Instagram,。
I have followed and liked and subscribed and saved all the big famous film photographers。
and not so famous film photographers. And I see what they use and some of them use black。
and white film. So I have stocked up on black and white film. Some of them use Ultramax.。
This film is cheap and good, okay? Like if you want to shoot film, this is what you use.。
And I've seen the photos and I've put together, you know, an album or I think it's like the。
save section on your Instagram, right? A saved folder where you could save a bunch of stuff.。
I have saved tons and tons of photos of the right type of film. This is Kodacolor 200,。
one of the best ones that out there recently. It just came out. Kodak is finally releasing。
film again. It's really good. This is Lomography 400, one of my favorite ones. It's not Kodak,。
so this is not just a Kodak sponsorship. They are not paying me for this message. This is。
Ilford. Again, if you want to shoot black and white, this is the stuff. And I think。
I have one more here. Yes. I also shoot medium format film. If you're not fancy enough to。
just shoot 35-meter film, you can shoot medium format film. It's really cool. You guys are。
looking at me like I'm speaking another language. It's okay. I understand. You're not hipster.。
I get it. Cool. But I have gathered so much information about film cameras. I've saved。
everything. I've watched every YouTube video. I've watched every Instagram reel. I know。
all the things I need to know about shooting film. I have learned so much, gathered so。
much information, and I feel very knowledgeable about this subject. But in case you are like。
Ellison who knows nothing about what I just said, and film photography is not the way。
to connect to you, my second favorite hobby is cooking. I love, love, love cooking. I'm。
actually pretty decent at it. And I have an entire saved Instagram folder full of recipes,。
y'all. Look at all these recipes. And they're all really short videos that you can watch.。
And actually, just to make me not feel like the only dweeb out there, raise your hand。
if you too save recipes on Instagram, thinking you're going to actually, you know, cook what's。
on there. Now, keep your hands up if you actually follow the recipes versus just saving it in。
your folder. Yeah. So I've saved so many recipes, like 52 of must-try recipes. I've tried a。
couple of them. I've learned and researched and put together a list of different things。
from really good banana pumpkin bread on the bottom right to incredible chicken wings to。
all the good Korean food. Y'all have tried Korean food? There's some people you need。
to follow that will tell you how to make good Korean food, the right type of kimchi, the。
right type of noodles, everything that you really need. I have learned about this. I。
have acquired all the knowledge necessary. But again, I have actually honestly only made。
like two of these recipes. I've acquired 52 of them, but I've only made about two. I found。
myself in a space where it's significantly easier to press the save button and the like。
button to learn about the thing than to do the thing itself. Accumulating recipes doesn't。
make you a great cook. Having all the knowledge about film photography and having a film camera。
and all of Kodak stuff doesn't make me a good photographer, doesn't teach me composition。
or rule of thirds or any of the things that I might need to be a decent photographer.。
What I'm saying is that there is a difference between knowing and knowing about. I know。
a lot about this stuff, but sometimes it doesn't translate into knowing the thing itself. If。
you've been here for the past couple of weeks, you would know that we've been sitting in。
this series around waiting. And the waiting season is just not fun. There's no cool graphic。
or really compelling sermon that's going to make you be like, "Oh yes, I can't wait to。
wait." Waiting creates tension in us. It puts us in this awkward position. No matter how。
much you know or how good it is, it still pulls at the emotion. We're still tempted。
to spiral when we have to wait for so long for the thing that we believe God has for。
us. It still is a battle of our emotions to wait and not lose hope. And somehow God expects。
for us to wait and not lose hope. So did you know that it's possible to wait and to wait。
well without losing hope? Did you know that it's possible to wait that's fueled by certain。
ideas that would lead us to a fuller understanding of waiting and perhaps an anticipation of。
waiting? These ideas circle around the fact that in our waiting, God has things for us。
more than just what we're asking for. So we go to God saying, "God, help me with this.。
God, I'm waiting for this thing." But in our waiting, if we were to wait well, fueled by。
these ideas, then there's this reality that God has more for you than just the solution。
to the problem that you are seeking him for. God in his goodness gives us great gifts.。
If you've been here, you've heard Andrew mention in this sermon series, "Waiting is a gift."。
And I'll be honest, when he first told the creative team that title, we kind of chuckled。
because we're like, "What? No one likes that. That title makes me frustrated. Waiting is。
a gift? What kind of gift is in waiting?" But I'm convinced that the more we understand。
waiting well, the better we'll see that actually God has gifts for us in the seasons of our。
waiting as we actively anticipate the change that is to come. He will produce something。
that is currently good and a future good in us. He will produce a fruit in us. And this。
is not easy to see. So we're going to dive deep into Psalm 27. We're going to look at。
verses 7 through 12 today and see just how David shapes this passage. And as we look。
through this passage, my hope is that you'll be able to see for yourself that there is。
fruit to be found in waiting beyond just the solution we look for.。
So let me read for us Psalm 27 starting at verse 7. "Hear, O Lord, when I cry aloud.。
Be gracious to me and answer me. You have said, 'Seek my face.' My heart says to you,。
'Your face, Lord, do I seek. Do not hide your face from me. Turn not your servants away。
in anger. O you who have been my help, cast me not off. Forsake me not, O God of my salvation.。
For my father and my mother have forsaken me, but the Lord will take me in. So teach。
me your way, O Lord. Lead me on a level path because of my enemies. Give me not up to the。
will of my adversaries, for false witnesses have risen against me and they breathe out。
violence." Let's pray. Holy Spirit, we know that it's through you that we can understand。
the words of Scripture. So we pray that you would begin that work in us now. As we look。
through your word, would you illuminate truth? Would you help us to see you more clearly?。
Would you speak to us? Would you build something in us this morning? We turn our attention。
and our affections towards you. In Jesus' name, amen.。
So what we see here is by the time we get to verse 7, David has changed something. The。
first six verses of this psalm has been different than how he speaks in verse 7. He's been building。
himself up with these big faith statements for the first six verses. He's been sharing。
this head knowledge he has of God as his light and his salvation and his hope, his stronghold。
of his life. He has been saying the things to get himself through the moment. He's been。
declaring these big good things about God. It's like he's been holding on to that idea.。
In non-Christian he's been like, "It's going to be okay. It's all right. God is with me.。
God is for me. I don't have to worry about it. It's going to be okay. It's not that bad.。
It's okay." He's been saying all the things he's needed to get himself through the moment.。
And that's not bad. He's been convincing himself and reminding himself of what he knows is。
true. He's been leaning on this element of the head knowledge of God, which is good to。
have. We all need a robust head knowledge of who God is.。
But when we approach verse 7, David takes it deeper. He doesn't stop alone at head knowledge.。
He adds a new component into the conversation. We can easily overlook this if we aren't careful,。
but David's audience changes in verse 7. He stops talking about God. He starts talking。
to God. Very subtle difference, but massive implications here. You could say it like this.。
He stops quoting good theology and starts praying. He stops quoting what he saw on Instagram。
or what some pastor said or what some devotional said, and he starts praying to God. He turns。
his attention directly to God, and he says it like this, "Hear, O Lord, when I cry aloud.。
Be gracious to me." He's like, "God, hear me. Hear me, God. This is hard. I'm in this。
waiting. Here's my conversation with you. This is not easy." He says, "God, hear me."。
He cries aloud to God. This is fascinating because David is king, and the structure and。
system that would have been set up in the kingdom was that as king, he would have a。
priest and a prophet, two different arms of which they could go to God for him, right?。
So the priest could go to God for David. We would see in other examples when David makes。
mistakes, he would have a priest go or a prophet go before God and say, "God, help me with。
this," or, "God, forgive me for this." But David himself, with no intermediary, goes。
before God, cries aloud before God. The humility of the king, not going through anyone else,。
the king himself, in all his power and all his prestige, going before God, crying aloud.。
I read this verse as permission to pour my heart out to God, to cry out to God and tell。
him what's really happening. And my question to you is, when was the last time you cried。
out to God? When was the last time you got real with God? He cries out. I'm not saying,。
"When was the last time you quoted good theology to help yourself feel better, or you quoted。
what you knew to help yourself get through the day?" But when was the last time you went。
to God and told him exactly what was on your heart? When was the last time you poured out。
your heart, saying, "God, I can't keep it together. God, I'm on the edge of emotional。
spiraling and turmoil. God, I'm getting so tired of waiting. God, my patience is wearing。
so thin. God, I am frustrated. I am angry. God, I'm disappointed." When was the last。
time you used genuine words to express the genuine feelings in your heart to God? When。
was the last time you cried out? That's what David does here. He cries out to God because。
just quoting theology isn't enough. No, but letting our theology lead us to a place of。
actual prayer. In our waiting, we need this vulnerability before God. And God isn't against。
you coming to him with what you have. I think sometimes we allow that to stop us. We think。
we need the polished answers, or we need the very good prayer with the good words, or we。
need to make sure that we're saying the right things to God. But crying out to God and being。
open and honest and just sharing what's there about how you feel, you are invited to do。
that. That is a part of what God wants for us in the waiting season.。
Could it be that God is waiting for you to get real with him about how waiting is impacting。
you? Have you thought about that? Could it be that vulnerability to God is actually what。
we need for him to draw near to us? In the Old Testament, across scripture, you would。
hear this idea of the cry of the people, the cry of the people. I love that David uses。
the word cry specifically, hear my cry. Because what happens when God hears the cry? Think。
back to the Exodus story. He says, "I have heard the cry of my people." What happens。
if we never actually cry out to God? He does hear it, but sometimes we are afraid to, sometimes。
we forget to, sometimes we think he wants our polishedness. But perhaps actually crying。
out to God will lead us to a place of truly drawing into him. See, this vulnerability。
leads to the idea of seeking his face. David would say, "God has told him, 'You have said,。
'Seek my face.'" I find that a really weird phrase because it doesn't make sense in the。
structure of all of this. "Seek my face, your face, Lord, I do seek." What's happening in。
this verse? Why is all of a sudden a face being, it's not saying, "Look at my actual。
face," all right? To seek God's face is this expression, is this idea of seeking his countenance,。
is this idea of knowing who he truly is. It's this invitation to really see him, the attributes,。
the person of God. So when he says, "Seek my face," it's an invitation to draw closer。
to him, to learn and understand a person's countenance. If you know a person's countenance,。
they may not have to say a word and you would understand what they're feeling, what they're。
feeling because you know them. So David cries out and God says, "Seek my countenance, come。
closer, come and seek my face." And he says, "I do seek your face. Come and see me, come。
and see more of me, come get closer." Do you see what God's doing here? Our vulnerability。
is an invitation to intimacy with God. Intimacy is a word that if you've been at the vine。
for the past couple of years, you would have heard us talk about, but it's this closeness,。
this nearness to God. It's the reason why James would write this in his epistle later,。
that he draws near to those who draw near to him. If we draw near to God in vulnerability,。
he will draw near to us. Psalm 34, it's very similar. It says, "The Lord draws near to。
the brokenhearted." It didn't cross my mind until a few minutes ago, but most of us, like。
think about this. If you visibly are walking down Wanchai Road and someone is brokenhearted,。
sobbing their eyes out, you probably aren't naturally drawn to them, right? Like there's。
kind of this social discomfort and hope they'll be okay and bystander effect where you let。
someone else take care of it. But God doesn't have a bystander effect with us. No, when。
we are brokenhearted, he draws closer to us. So when we are sitting in the disappointment。
of waiting, when we are still waiting and it's becoming frustrating and it's impacting。
our emotions and how we feel and what we see, if we were to draw near to God, he would draw。
near to us. So if you're running out of hope and you're disappointed, God's willing to。
draw near to you. If you're like, "I don't have enough faith to keep believing for this,"。
God is willing to draw near to you. He draws near to the brokenhearted. The intimacy of。
God and knowing him is a byproduct of crying out. So church, when was the last time you。
cried out to God? Because this will impact how we wait. We need to know who God is for。
ourselves. This intimacy leads to this idea of seeking his face and seeing his countenance。
and understanding who he is. We need to know who God is for ourselves, not just what others。
have said about him, not just what I'm going to say about him or Pastor Ellison or Pastor。
Andrew or Pastor Carla or Pastor Justin or some famous preacher you follow online, not。
what other people say about God, but we need to know about God ourselves. We need to come。
close to him. And it's only from this posture of intimacy and drawing close to God that。
David's able to write and describe what he writes in verses 9 and 10. See, he says this,。
"Hide not your face from me. Turn not your servants away in anger. Oh, you who have been。
my help, cast me not off. Forsake me not. Oh, God of my salvation. For my mother and。
my father may have forsaken me, but the Lord will take me in." Okay, we're going to do。
a little bit of grammar. I'm not good at grammar, but it's just simple grammar, okay? Do you。
notice that in these two verses, David uses the past, the present, and the future tenses?。
Take a look. He speaks of the past tense, the present tense, sorry. He says, "Do not。
hide. Turn not. Cast me off not. Forsake me not." David speaks of the past tense. He says,。
"Oh, you who have been my help." David speaks of the future tense, "But the Lord will take。
me in." Drawing from his cry, out of the intimacy found in vulnerability, David now prays these。
three ways, in the past of who God was, in the present of who God is, and in the future。
of who God will be. It's almost like the intimacy with God has given David a profound sense。
of knowing who God is that he now uses in this prayer. See, the intimacy part of prayer。
reveals the countenance of God, right? Reveals the face of God. It allows us to see who he。
truly has been. And it helps David remember, which if you were here two weeks ago, the。
whole sermon was on remembering correctly who God was because it impacts so much of。
how we exist today. David pulls from that exact same thing. He remembers and recalls。
who God was, giving him faith in the moment for who God is, giving him a prophetic hope。
and declaration of who God will be, all built off of crying out to God, being invited to。
this intimacy, and seeking the face, seeing the countenance of God. Each of these prayers。
getting stronger and stronger, establishing a hope, a prophetic hope in David who starts。
off crying, ends up declaring. All this through prayer. I mean, just praying does this? I。
found it very fascinating. And I love just a small detail just to keep in mind here.。
When he speaks of the future, he gives this example. He says, "For my mother and my father。
may forsake me." In this culture, the family unit is everything. So the example David is。
giving is somewhat hyperbolic. It's this idea of my worst case scenario may take place.。
My family, my everything, my mom and dad might leave me. But because I know who you were,。
because I have faith in who you are, I can declare with confidence, with great hope that。
even if my worst day comes true, you won't forsake me. Even if it's as bad as my anxiety。
tells me it's gonna be, you'll still be there. You will still take me in. I think some of。
us need that this morning, to know that we serve a God who, even if it gets as bad as。
you think it will, you'll still be there. He'll still take you in. He's still with you。
and for you. Because he is steadfast in his love, steadfast in all his ways. He is a hope。
that's not just dependable, but reliable. He's proven himself in the past. He's here。
in the present working and moving. And because of that, we can have hope in the future.。
Here at the Vine, we sung the song and penned these words, "Hallelujah, praise the one who。
was. Hallelujah, praise the one who is. Hallelujah, you'll forever be our God." All three tenses,。
same concept. And it's so important that we're not just seeing these words, but that we internalize。
these truths and allow it to impact how we pray and how we wait. All this is a byproduct。
of praying, praying, producing hope. I wasn't expecting for prayer to be where hope came。
from. And if prayer produces hope, then maybe we ought to pray a little bit more. I think。
for some of us, if we don't have hope, my question is, have we prayed? Might've talked。
about it, but have we prayed yet? Again, Andrew says this whole waiting season is a gift,。
but so far we see that there's this gift of intimacy, being able to know God and see his。
face and then the hope coming out of this relationship, this intimacy with him. And。
then Romans tells us that hope does not put us to shame. Hope does not disappoint. And。
as I was writing this sermon, that was one of the cross references that came to my mind.。
Hope does not put us to shame. Hope does not disappoint. Yet I know that there are some。
of us who have prayed, who are waiting, who are disappointed, who are doing all the things,。
who are following all the steps, and it feels like hope is putting us to shame. Feels like。
we're waiting and we're not getting there yet. And I remember writing, and initially。
if I'm honest, I was going to skip that part because that's not an easy preach. Like everything。
else I can just like go through it. But when you have to think about the fact that it's。
not necessarily formulaic, if I draw near to God, all my problems are going to be solved.。
It's easy to say that's not the reality though, is it? Because there are those of us here。
who are waiting and it hasn't been solved yet. So what now? What do we do with this。
prophetic hope when we're still sitting in this unanswered space, when we're still waiting。
and it's like, God, are you ever going to respond to my needs? I've seen you, this is。
when it hurts the most. I've seen other people get their prayer request answered. I've seen。
you show up for them. But what about me? I'm waiting, I'm praying, I'm hoping. What do。
I do then? So let me just confess, I don't have the answer to that question. It's a real。
question, but I do believe that we find two particularly peculiar things in this next。
verse that help us address this concept from a different angle. Okay?。
Reading this last chunk, we see that David says something important and the way he says。
it, the order in which he communicates it is just as important. Right? And it's important。
that we understand both the thing he's communicating and the order so that we don't swing the pendulum。
to an overly spiritual side or to an overly practical side. Okay? The verse goes like。
this. He says, "Teach me your way, O Lord." I'm going to stop you right there from your。
reading. "Teach me your way." Did you catch what he's saying? So, so far we have crying。
out, intimacy, seek my face. I'm seeking your face, God. All of us, I'm growing in hope。
and confidence and faith and prophetic hope that all things are possible. And how does。
that culminate in David's request? His request is, "Teach me your way, O Lord." I don't like。
this verse. I find this, if it were me, when it's me, this isn't where my hope leads me。
to, naturally. When this is me in that situation, my hope leads me to, "Okay, yes, I believe。
and I have hope and I have faith and I have confidence. Now solve my problem." Right?。
What's all this hope for if it's not going to solve my problem? My perspective is solution.。
Like, "God, get me out of this thing. God, provide this thing. God, open this door. God,。
remove this," whatever the situation is, I've developed this intimacy and this hope and。
this confidence and this faith, and I'm looking for the solution. That's me. Anyone else?。
Anyone else relate to that in any way? Yeah, a few of you, three of you? Cool. Thank you.。
That's how it is when I pray about this. And maybe for some of you, the modern take on。
that would be, "God, take away the pain. God, give me the job. God, bring my spouse. God,。
I've waited so long." Something like that, right? Those are the prayers that we're praying。
for. "God, give me a victory." With this prophetic hope, what do you want of God? David wants。
God to teach him his ways. "Lead me on a level path." Look, David isn't, interestingly enough,。
he isn't giving his primary need as a solution to his situation. Something's happened in。
David's prayer life. I think we've missed something here. Something's happened in this。
journey of intimacy and hope that has reshifted some things in David's mind. Because let's。
not over-spiritualize it. Whatever situation David was in before he started praying, he's。
still in now. Nothing's really changed yet. It's just been him and God. But somehow, he's。
coming out of this prayer, leaning into it with a specifically different perspective.。
Even though he has this need, what is the first thing he asks for? For God to teach。
him his ways. How do we get there? How do we get to a place where intimacy produces hope。
and it produces this reprioritized desire? I've tried to reprioritize my desires and。
I fail miserably at it. Like I want what I want. But something in this prayer, something。
has changed between verses where David's desires are reprioritized and I'm convinced that we。
cannot draw close to God, see him more clearly, learn his heart, know his ways, and want anything。
more than to be like him. I'm convinced of this. Like David, seek formation more than。
solution. We now have this appetite because we've seen the countenance of God. When you've。
come close to him, I'm convinced you want nothing more than to be like him. And what。
does it mean to be like him? To take his approach on things, to yield your will to be exactly。
like his. You're saying, "God, I want to be like you. Lead me in your ways. Help me to。
see things the way that you see it. Help me to feel about this the way that you feel about。
it. Help me to approach it the way that you would approach it." This is how David prays.。
"Lord, show me your ways. Lead me in your ways. Teach me your ways." Is this idea of。
formation before solution? And look, it doesn't mean that all of a sudden the issues that。
David is facing are no longer important because literally the next verse, he would say, "Give。
me not up to the will of my adversaries." He would explain that false witnesses have。
risen against me and they breathe out violence. So David isn't saying, "Don't bring your requests。
to God," but look at the order in which he's doing it. Order matters here. He first says,。
"Make me like you, God. Let me see it like you. I've seen your face and now I want your。
perspective. Now I want to be like you." It's very similar to what we see in Matthew 6 when。
Jesus is out walking the streets and doing miracles and doing all these great things。
for years and his disciples are like, "Teach us how to pray." And Jesus says, "Okay, if。
you want to know how to pray, pray like this. Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be。
your name." First thing is, "Your kingdom come, your will be done." Right? The first。
thing, yours. We want your perspective. And then he follows that up. He doesn't say, "End。
the prayer there." He doesn't say, "Be so holy you don't have to ask for things." He。
says, "Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Now give us this。
day our daily bread." There's room for both, but the order matters. There's room for your。
requests. There's room for the things that you're seeking a solution for. But let me。
tell you, God is significantly more committed to your formation and will do anything to。
form you more like him. And that reprioritizing of desires in our hearts cannot take place。
on our own outside of prayer. And this is why waiting is so special. This is why prayer。
is so important. Because if we wait well, to wait well means we have to engage in prayer.。
God makes room for the needs, but we have to come to him in prayer. All of this waiting。
and conversation of hope and faith and formation are all part of prayer. This whole sermon。
could have been summarized by saying, "Pray." You're welcome.。
So I like to do this at the end of every sermon, give you three nice spiritual points to take。
home, but today I only have two. So lean in. Two things. First thing is this, just come。
to God. That's what he's saying, come to God. As Christians, if you're a Christian in the。
room, we oftentimes fall victim to ourself, to our Christian needs, to our jargon. We'll。
talk about God, but we'll forget to talk to God. Right? So don't just quote how good he。
is, talk to him. Lean in. There is so much for you to gain by drawing close to him. I'll。
confess, this week has been a hard week for the Armstrong family. It has been all sorts。
of health related issues, so much frustration. I'm sweating now, not because I'm a good preacher,。
it's because I'm not feeling well. My whole family's been sick the whole week. And last。
Sunday I wasn't here, my son was sick with a stomach bug, which is the worst thing in。
the world for a four year old. And we have a one and a half year old, so my wife and。
I split the duty. She takes the baby, I take my son. We self quarantine in one room, so。
I'm inevitably going to get the bug as well, and it's a great time. So we're sitting there,。
we're all sick, me and Elias, a couple of days, and Sunday comes around and my parents。
call. I grew up with my dad as a pastor and my mom as a worship leader. They call and。
they're asking, "How's everyone doing?" I'm like, "Yeah, well Elias is sick." They're。
like, "Elias is sick?" I'm like, "Yes, Elias is sick." And so they just start praying for。
him. And I mean, not like, "God help him." No, no, they start straight up African, praying。
in tongues, 100%, just leaning into it, pleading the blood of Jesus, no hedge of protection。
over him from the crown of his head to the salt. They're quoting everything. They are。
praying like it matters for my son. This is beautiful. This is great. It's what I need.。
And they're praying for so long. My son's only four, so he loses interest after like。
10 seconds and just walks off. And we're online, but it didn't stop my parents. They kept praying,。
just kept rolling with it for minutes after minutes after minutes, just kept praying and。
praying. And I'm sitting there, I'm like, "I'm receiving it." Interestingly enough, he's。
sick, I'm sick. They didn't pray for me. They only prayed for... He just hit me, mom. Mom,。
and I know she's watching today too. You didn't pray for me. You prayed for Elias only. You。
see that. But they kept praying. And they finished praying, and it hit me like a ton。
of bricks that during that couple of days, my wife was super anxious about it all, understandably.。
Two sick kids, you don't want that. And my role in the relationship is to always, you。
know, bring down the emotions. "Okay, it's fine. God's got us. You know, He's for us.。
He's my light. He's my..." I quoted all the scriptures to my spouse, to myself. And it。
wasn't until after my parents prayed that I realized I never prayed. I just quoted scripture。
the whole time. I had great theology. I had it memorized. It was sitting there. I could。
tell you all the promises of God, but I never went to God about the issue. I never came。
to God at all. I just spoke about God. And I share this just to say that it's so easy。
to do, to talk about God and not talk to God. Can I just encourage you, talk to God. In。
your waiting, in your tension, in your spiraling, in your disappointment, go to God. And He。
doesn't need you to get yourself put together before you come to Him. You don't need to。
have it all right. He can handle your frustration. He can handle your anger. He can handle the。
fact that you're disappointed. He's big enough for that. Okay? Go to God. And a very practical。
way I want to leave you with is this week when you pray, try this. "God, I feel..."。
And you fill in the blank with what it is that you're feeling. Whether that emotion。
is anxiety or frustration, whether it's sadness, "God, I feel annoyed. God, I feel disappointed.。
God, I feel hurt. God, I feel tired." Tell Him. Tell Him exactly what it is that you。
feel and move that into, "God, I fear." Let Him know what it is that's really creating。
a tension in your heart. If you don't have the words, just try this template. "God, I。
feel. God, I fear." Allow crying out to God to be that invitation to intimacy with Him.。
And then secondly, check your hope. Where is your hope in the waiting? Hope is only。
found as a result of intimacy with Jesus. True hope in Jesus comes from being with Jesus.。
So for many of us, if our hope seems weak, it's probably not on Jesus, probably in something。
else. So check your hope. Where is your hope? We need a reliable hope. And that's why I。
harked on this whole grammar thing of who He was and who He is and who He will forever。
be. We have a dependable hope. So if your hope is failing, check it. Where are you leaning?。
What are you building upon? And a great way for you to pray this this week is praying。
like this, "God, you are blank. God, you are for me. God, you are patient. God, you are。
good. God, you will come through. God, you are. God, you are." Find the words that work。
for you. But pray, "God, you are," followed by maybe the most important aspect of all。
of this, "God, help me build my hope on you because you are." So if you say, "God, you。
are patient," then God, help me build my hope on you because you are patient. If you say,。
"God, you are faithful," then God, help me build my hope upon you because you are faithful.。
Look, prayer is what unlocks this stuff. And we as a church globally just don't pray enough.。
We talk about it a lot. We don't pray enough. So pray, pray, pray. Spend time with God and。
pray. That's where the transformation is gonna take place. That's where the intimacy is gonna。
really happen. That's where you're gonna see God and know God. You can take in sermons。
all day. You can like things online and retweet or whatever people do these days on Instagram.。
Do those things if you want. But if you don't pray and connect with God for yourself, you'll。
be talking about God. You'll have the head knowledge, but you won't have known him. So。
let's know him today, church. Is that okay? As the worship team comes up, I'm gonna have。
us close our eyes and we're gonna pray. And something we do very often here at the Vine。
is we open our hands as a sign of God, "I am open to you about this in this moment.。
This is for me." So this isn't you praying and opening your hands to show me, promise,。
anything. I'm not even looking at you. My eyes are closed. But as a symbol between you。
and God, if you would open your hands and just let me pray for you. Heavenly Father,。
we thank you for your profound goodness. God, only you could take something as crummy as。
waiting and put gifts in it for us. Only you can take something as mundane as waiting and。
put hope and intimacy and draw near to us, God. God, we need your help. We need more。
of you. Those of some of us today who are sitting in this space of not being able to,。
not knowing how to approach you in the waiting, God, I pray that you would show us what it。
looks like to cry out to you with our feelings and with our fear. God, would you, Holy Spirit,。
would you remove any lie that hinders us from honesty and openness with you? Any lie that。
tells us we have to have it all together or we have to use certain words or we have to。
be a certain way. God, you just care that we come to you. So help us, Lord. Put the。
strength in our bodies, in our minds, in our wills just to come to you. God, you draw near。
to those of us who are brokenhearted. So I pray for those who are brokenhearted, whose。
hope have run out, who's tired of waiting, who's exhausted and spent. Lord, would you。
put in their minds and in their hearts this reality that you draw near to them. You're。
not far away from us. You don't flee us in our moments of weakness, but you draw near。
to the brokenhearted. And if we would draw near to you, you will draw near to us. Give。
us what it takes, Holy Spirit. Drag us if you must, but help us to draw near to you。
and find you, God. Everything we need is in you. Would you bring us to that place? God,。
would you push away our Christianese and our jargon? Help us not just talk about you, God.。
Help us not just recite the things we know about you, but would you put us to a place。
of actually surrendering, humbling ourselves and coming to you. Those of us who feel like。
we're too busy, would you help us find the time, help us to make the time. Remind us。
of the deep importance of being in your presence, of the hope, of the intimacy, of the formation。
that comes from praying. Would we not just talk about you? Would we talk to you? Holy。
Spirit, invite us in, in Jesus' name. Those of us who feel hopeless, those of us whose。
hope feels like it's falling apart or not stable, God, you are the same yesterday, today,。
as you'll forever be. And that same is good, that same is faithful, that same is loving,。
that same is steadfast, mercy that endures forever, mercy is in you every morning. God,。
you are good. So help us build our hope upon you and the goodness that flows from you.。
Help us to seek your face. Draw us in, oh God, as we take a step closer. Show us what。
it looks like to take one step closer to you this week. God, for all that you have for。
us in this season of waiting, may we not miss it. For a solution, form us more into your。
likeness. Draw us in, bring us closer that we would see you, that we would know you,。
we would love you and be changed forever by you. In Jesus' name.。
