Yes, it is so good to see you.。
Last night was a good night.。
Does anyone know why?。
Because Germany won 2-0 on the Euros.。
Now, of course, I couldn't stay up.。
I'm preaching today, but I'm excited.。
Well, for my senior year,。
I moved from Germany to the US and I lived with。
a host family that were raisin farmers.。
Now, of course, you don't grow raisins, you grow grapes.。
So I lived on actually in。
the middle of a vineyard for my senior year of high school.。
Now, if you know anything about farming communities,。
farming people, they work incredibly hard.。
They're hardworking people.。
Now, I was 17 years old,。
little self-focused, absorbed with myself at that time.。
I didn't always know how to pick up after myself.。
I also came from a different family,。
different families do things differently.。
I wasn't always aware of how I could be helpful.。
Now, don't get me wrong.。
I helped out in the house,。
I helped out in the yard,。
I helped out on the farm,。
even got to drive a tractor every once in a while if they let me,。
got to drive a forklift.。
Only was allowed to do that once.。
But looking back,。
I really often really missed those opportunities to be helpful。
and to pick up on how I could。
contribute to what was going on that family and on that farm.。
I'm so thankful for the host parents。
because they were so graceful and so patient with me.。
Here I am totally oblivious,。
maybe I put dishes in the dishwasher but never take them out,。
they magically appear in the cupboards,。
that type of thing.。
But they were patient with me,。
and of course they also told me how I could be helpful,。
they helped me with that.。
But all of that made my senior year。
one of the highlights really of my life.。
It really was a turning point,。
an incredible year and it was because of their。
just love and patience that they showed me.。
Now, I did not deserve this patience,。
but all of this makes me think about,。
isn't it interesting how often we run out of patience,。
how often there's so little patience in our lives.。
Sometimes people don't have patience with us,。
we need a lot of grace and a lot of patience,。
but then other times we lack。
or we run out of patience and grace for other people.。
Now I want to share some examples,。
and I'm curious to see if you resonate with them.。
The first one is walking.。
When I walk and somebody is slow in front of me。
and I need to get somewhere, I get impatient.。
Anyone with me on that?。
Few people, okay.。
So you have some power walkers here, good.。
There's other things that make me impatient.。
Maybe I hear I don't drive, but I drove in other countries,。
when people don't use their signals.。
It's like, "Hey, I can't read your mind。
that you are changing the lane, and I'm behind you,。
and you suddenly cut in front of me."。
So there was impatience with that.。
But if we're honest, there's also a lot of impatience。
and lack of grace in our friendships,。
and with family members, maybe with our parents,。
maybe with our brothers and sisters,。
maybe with our children.。
And there's also a lot of lack of patience。
when people hold different political views than we hold.。
Like, "Why don't they get it?。
Why can't they see this?"。
You know, like, "Tsk, tsk, tsk, tsk, tsk, tsk, tsk, tsk, tsk."。
You know, "Forget that."。
And so there's a lot of lack of grace, but you know what?。
There's also lack of patience and grace。
a lot of times in the church.。
Now, I was thinking about this.。
I actually have this idea.。
It's called patient church.。
Now, for me, that's not what I always put together,。
but actually it should be put together,。
that the church is a place where there's patience。
and where there's grace for each other,。
where we give that, but also where we receive that.。
But often, often we lack that.。
Now, obviously, patience and grace is something。
that every Christian, that God wants to work into our lives.。
So I have a little statement here.。
Patience is one of God's characteristics。
that he wants to grow and bring about in our lives.。
Now, that's not always the most exciting thing.。
"Yay, we're gonna grow in patience.。
"We're gonna be able to put up with things."。
Is anyone excited with me?。
No, I don't really sense it.。
"Yay."。
I have a little daughter, so I go into the clapping mode.。
"Yay," you know?。
But really, God desires to bring that into our lives,。
to grow that into our lives.。
And the Bible talks about,。
actually the book that we're in, in the series,。
Galatians, talks about the fruit of the spirit.。
And one of them is patience.。
And God wants to bring about patience in our lives.。
He wants to see that unfold.。
And so we're continuing our sermon series。
through the book of Galatians.。
We're gonna see how Paul is just incredibly patient。
with the Galatians church that has gotten off track,。
that's not treating him very nicely.。
And then we're also, of course, gonna see。
how God wants to speak to us about being patient。
and being full of grace.。
So let's go to Galatians 4.。
We're starting in verse eight.。
It says this, "Formerly, when you did not know God,。
"you were slaves to those who by nature are not gods.。
"But now that you know God, or rather are known by God,。
"how is it that you are turning back。
"to those weak and miserable forces?。
"Do you wish to be enslaved by them all over again?。
"You are observing special days and months。
"and seasons and years.。
"I fear for you, that somehow I have wasted。
"my efforts on you."。
So what's going on here?。
So Paul is saying,。
talking about a time when they didn't know God.。
That's basically when they were idol worshipers.。
Then there is a time where they've come to know God,。
where they have a personal relationship with him.。
But he's saying like now they're going back。
to basically this idol worship.。
He's like, "Why?。
"Why would you enslave yourself all over again?。
"Why in the world would you do that?"。
Now, this sounds like the Galatians are going back。
to the former way of life,。
like they're deconverting from their faith.。
But that's actually not what's going on.。
What they're doing is they're starting to observe。
the Mosaic Law.。
You know, there's these days and these months。
and these special years.。
And Paul is equating this religious observing。
and striving and paganism,。
where you're trying to manipulate God somehow。
to do something to give you favor.。
He's equating that or drawing an analogy。
between that and the Galatians starting。
to observe the Mosaic Law and trying to gain。
right relationship with God.。
He's like, "Why would you do that?。
"You already know God."。
So that's what's going on here.。
Now, Paul, one of the big things he's emphasizing here。
is this whole thing about knowing God.。
Not knowing, you know, you didn't know God.。
So actually let's pull that up.。
So it says there, "Formerly when you did not know God,"。
and then he talks about, "But now that you know God。
"or rather are known by God."。
So this is, whenever you see in the Bible。
something repeated, there's always something。
that God wants to especially highlight there.。
Now, knowing is not just intellectually knowing。
or knowing something about someone.。
It's actually also experientially knowing.。
And so Paul is saying when he said that they know God,。
that when they became a Christian,。
they started to experientially experience。
the Father God in their lives,。
that they actually experienced this relationship,。
experienced Him to be real.。
And he's taking them back to that experience。
that they've had.。
And so that's why he's asking like,。
why would you wanna go back to anything else?。
You already have a relationship with God, the Father.。
But then what's interesting is。
he actually almost mid-sentence。
kind of corrects him or changes his direction。
instead of talking about you know God.。
He says, "Or rather are known by God."。
Now, what's the difference with that?。
Why does he make that shift?。
Well, I'm gonna try to explain this。
with a little bit of a silly analogy,。
and this is not a true story.。
So I'll just put that out there.。
I try to choose a person。
that I thought most people would be familiar with.。
The person's name is Taylor Swift.。
(audience laughing)。
All right, so okay, most people are nodding.。
Most people are familiar.。
Okay, good, I chose the right person then.。
So let's say I tell you, I know Taylor Swift.。
I've met her once and I talked to her for 20 seconds.。
You're like, well, that's pretty cool.。
You met her for 20 seconds.。
You know, some people would be excited about that,。
but it's really, it doesn't mean that much.。
It means something, but it doesn't mean that much.。
But what if Taylor Swift in an interview says,。
"I know Tim Brixel.。
"I know this guy.。
"You know, he's known to me."。
And that would be quite different, right,。
if I say, "She knows me," right?。
So what Paul is saying,。
actually what's a lot more important than us knowing God。
is that we are known by God, that he knows us.。
You are known by God, the creator of the universe。
who holds everything in his hands, who knows, he knows you.。
You are his beloved child.。
And again, Paul is trying to take the Galatians。
to reminding them of this incredible truth。
about their identity.。
They are known by God.。
They are children of God.。
He knows their name.。
He knows what's going on in their lives.。
He knows everything.。
That's amazing.。
That's incredible.。
And again, the question is,。
why would you go back to something else?。
Now, I have shared here before。
about going through a difficult personal relationship,。
and there was a break, and I'm not gonna go into details.。
If you are interested, you can listen。
to the Longing for Healing sermon series.。
But so I was abandoned, I was left,。
and I was living with somebody that was an acquaintance。
that later on became a friend,。
and this was the first time of me going back to church。
after all that happened.。
And so I step into this church.。
The pastor is, you know, I don't know anything about them.。
They don't know me, and he is preaching about Psalm 139,。
and then they sing a song by Tommy something.。
It's not something, it's Tommy Walker, there we go.。
And it's "He Knows My Name."。
So I wanna share with you some of the lyrics from that song.。
It's old school, I love it,。
but you should go listen to it.。
But, you know, it's my, or even earlier generation.。
It goes like this.。
"I have a maker, he formed my heart.。
"Before even time began, my life was in his hands.。
"He knows my name.。
"He knows my every thought.。
"He sees each tear that falls and hears me when I call.。
"I have a father, he calls me his own.。
"He'll never leave me no matter where I go."。
Now, as I was stepping into this church,。
I felt abandoned.。
I felt left.。
God was not, even though I went to church,。
you know, that he knows me was not on my radar.。
And so as we're singing a song,。
I'm just reminded of that God knows me.。
That I'm not alone, that he is with me.。
That I'm not abandoned, that he sees each tear。
that I was crying in that time.。
And that was so comforting.。
I'm already known by God.。
It's not about my life being perfect。
or my circumstances being good or bad.。
God knows me.。
That's incredible.。
And that brings so much comfort。
when we realize the truth about our identity.。
But we constantly or regularly forget that.。
We forget our identity.。
That's why Paul, as he's writing to the Galatians,。
he's like trying to take them back。
to this basic understanding.。
You are known by God.。
He knows you.。
He knows your name.。
He knows every tear that has been falling down your face.。
Every single one.。
He has not missed it.。
And he is with you.。
He is for you.。
He is not against you.。
'Cause he's trying to bring them back to this truth.。
You do not have to go back to somehow try。
to earn this relationship with God the Father.。
You already have it.。
He already has adopted you as his sons, as his daughters.。
He already loves you.。
He is already with you.。
And so Paul, it doesn't make any sense。
to go from not knowing God to knowing God。
to now pretending like we don't know him。
and trying to somehow gain right standing with him.。
These human efforts, this religiosity,。
it is always a dead end.。
It never delivers.。
You cannot save yourself.。
You cannot make yourself feel good.。
Only the power of God, his love, his care, his presence,。
this Holy Spirit inside of you。
can start bringing about this wholeness and restoration,。
give you salvation, make you part of his family.。
So that's why Paul is taking him back.。
And he's being so patient.。
He's actually been doing this all throughout the letter.。
And he pleads with the Galatians。
in all these different ways.。
And he is trying to win them back。
to the basic gospel message, the basic truth.。
So let's continue.。
(clears throat)。
In Galatians 4, verse 12, it says this.。
I plead with you, brothers and sisters, become like me.。
For I became like you.。
You did me no wrong.。
As you know, it was because of an illness。
that I first preached the gospel to you.。
Even though my illness was a trial to you,。
you did not treat me with contempt or scorn.。
Instead, you welcomed me as if I were an angel of God,。
as if I were Christ Jesus himself.。
Where then is your blessing for me now?。
I can testify that if you could have done so,。
you would have torn out your eye and given them to me.。
Have I now become your enemy by telling you the truth?。
So this is again a heart-to-heart moment.。
Actually, in the letter before, Paul is doing。
a bunch of theology and going back in the history of Israel.。
But here he's really getting to this heart-to-heart talk.。
He's reminding them of when they first met.。
It's like when two, actually, in the first service,。
Pastor Ivan was talking about how him and Michi。
first met and their relationship.。
He's like taking him back to that sweet moment。
of first meeting.。
And he was ill at the time.。
Scholars don't know what exactly was going on.。
Was it a sickness?。
Was he ill because he was persecuted, beaten,。
and was disfigured and someone needing recovering。
from all of that?。
We don't know.。
But he must have been in quite a horrible shape.。
And so they take him in and he preaches the gospel,。
being apparently extremely sick to them.。
They come to faith, they experience God the Father.。
And even though his illness is actually a trial,。
there is so much needing to care for him.。
It's really not convenient.。
But they treat him, because he preaches gospel message。
about Jesus, he's the messenger,。
but they treat him as if he was Jesus himself。
with so much love, 'cause they experienced。
just God's goodness in their lives.。
And that was absolutely incredible.。
But then in verse 15, Paul says, "But what happened?"。
Like we had this amazing experience.。
It was so powerful, you loved me.。
You were willing to tear out your eye.。
You would do anything for me.。
That's what that means, tearing out your eye,。
not literally tearing out your eye.。
You would do anything for me.。
But why are you treating me now as an enemy?。
What's going on here?。
Now it's tough when people suddenly that we loved,。
that we cared for, that we had a good relationship with,。
suddenly see us as their enemies,。
and suddenly don't have good feelings towards us.。
Now I don't know if you've experienced that.。
I think if you're older, you probably have.。
You know, we experience it at different degrees,。
but it happens.。
And Paul, he's remaining graceful and patient。
and leaning in, even though they're treating him。
as an enemy.。
You know, that's incredible.。
Like, I don't know about you,。
if somebody treats you like an enemy that,。
you know, maybe for a little bit,。
you're able to have some patience, have some grace,。
but then you run out of it.。
And you're like, I'm gonna cut my losses,。
you know, peace out, see you later.。
Like, I just can't deal with that anymore.。
But Paul keeps leaning in, he keeps showing grace,。
he keeps showing love.。
But Paul is also making the point,。
you know, I have not changed.。
I've remained the same.。
I've preached the same gospel I preached then。
that I'm preaching now, that I'm telling you now about.。
But your feelings towards me have changed。
because the Galatians are starting to buy。
into a different gospel.。
And so now their feelings towards Paul have been changing。
and they treat him as an enemy.。
And I mean, that is just tough.。
That's tough.。
He keeps fighting for them, even though they keep fighting him.。
I really like that line.。
I'll say it again.。
He keeps fighting for them,。
even though they keep fighting him.。
Just think about that.。
Somebody's fighting you,。
but then that, but you keep fighting for them,。
their well-being.。
It's amazing, right?。
Talking about grace, patience, love.。
So let's continue in Galatians verse 17.。
It says this, "Those people are zealous to win you over."。
So by those people, he's talking about agitators,。
a group of agitators, a rival missionaries。
that came in after Paul into the church。
that were saying, "Hey, this guy only taught you。
half the truth.。
You know, here's the other half."。
So it's about them.。
So those people are zealous to win you over,。
but for no good.。
What they want is to alienate you from us。
so that you may have zeal for them.。
It is fine to be zealous, provided the purpose is good,。
and to be so always, not just when I'm with you.。
My dear children, for whom I'm again。
in the pains of childbirth until Christ is formed in you,。
how I wish I could be with you now and change my tone。
because I'm perplexed about you.。
So first, he's talking about the motives, really,。
of the agitators, the group of people that came in。
and that are stirring up things with the Galatians.。
And he's saying, "Hey, they're trying to separate us."。
And really what they want is for you to be zealous for them,。
for you to honor them, for you to put them on a pedestal.。
That's what they want.。
That's really what they're after.。
They're talking all spiritual,。
but that's really what matters to them.。
And what an incredible contrast it is。
that that's not what Paul is about.。
Paul, he truly cares about them.。
He is for them.。
And like I said, he's fighting for them,。
even though they're fighting him.。
And now he expresses his heart in verse 19.。
So let me read this again.。
It says, "My dear children,。
for whom I'm again in the pains of childbirth。
until Christ is formed in you."。
So Paul is concerned for the Galatians' maturity,。
their spiritual well-being.。
That's why he wants God's goodness to unfold in their lives.。
That's why he's not giving up on them.。
I'm gonna fight for them.。
I'm gonna fight for their well-being。
because God loves them.。
They're worth it.。
I wanna see the goodness of God unfold。
in this group of people's lives,。
even though they're treating me right now as an enemy.。
And he uses the metaphor of giving birth for a second time.。
Now, I've never given birth,。
but I know that this is painful.。
And then just imagine the ancient times。
without any of the anesthetics and epidurals。
and all of that, you know,。
and then doing it a second time.。
So Paul is saying this is taking like some extra effort,。
double effort, you know, to see Christ fully formed。
and then see the life of Jesus unfold in their lives.。
But that's his desire, so he doesn't give up on them.。
He doesn't treat them like a lost cause.。
But here's a question.。
How is Paul able to do that?。
How is Paul able to be patient and graceful。
with people who are treating him as an enemy。
and seeking their well-being?。
Yeah, how do you do that?。
How do you do that when somebody's hating on you?。
Well, Paul, he writes a letter to one of his people。
he was mentoring and also co-laborers, co-ministers,。
Timothy, 1 Timothy 2, 15 and 16 says this.。
"Here's a trustworthy saying that deserves full acceptance.。
"Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners。
"of whom I am the worst.。
"But for that very reason, I was shown mercy。
"so that in me, the worst of sinners,。
"Christ Jesus might display his immense patience。
"as an example for those who would believe in him。
"and receive eternal life."。
So Christ has shown Paul immense patience.。
That means a lot of patience.。
Now, earlier in the letter to the Galatians in chapter one,。
Paul talks about that he used to persecute the church.。
He proved Christians being murdered.。
Paul was approving of that.。
He even talks about an act that he was breathing。
murderous threats as he was trying to go。
after the Christians.。
And then Jesus meets him, he appears to him,。
there's a revelation on the road to Damascus.。
And then through this whole experience,。
Paul ends up becoming a Christian.。
But it's just by this sheer grace and mercy of God,。
he didn't deserve it.。
None of us ever deserve Jesus healing,。
saving work in our lives.。
But he's able to be patient and show grace。
because Jesus has been patient with him。
and has shown him grace.。
And he just lives out of this mercy and grace。
and out of his identity as someone who's loved,。
who is forgiven.。
So now he can turn around and as he relies。
on the Holy Spirit, start showing mercy and grace。
to other people, start fighting for people。
who are hating on him because he desires,。
just like God desired for his life,。
the good to unfold in his life,。
he now turns around and desires that goodness of God。
to unfold in somebody else's life.。
So what about us?。
Like Paul, Jesus has shown us grace and patience。
so we can become people who show grace。
and patience to others.。
You know, we also, if you're a Christian,。
if you're a Jesus follower, you also are known by God.。
He knows your name.。
He loves you.。
He is for you, not against you.。
He is unfolding good things in your life.。
And when we live in that identity as being known by God,。
you know, it frees us up to start loving and serving。
and caring and fighting and wrestling。
and doing whatever it takes to see the goodness of God。
unfold in other people's lives.。
Now, when I was a teenager, my parents,。
this is very fitting for today, made me go to youth group.。
So I was, my parents were Christians.。
I was not a Christian at the time.。
They're like, you have to go one year to youth group.。
And then after that, you can make up your mind.。
So one year, that's a long time,。
especially if you don't feel like going.。
So, but what I had no choice, so I went.。
And, you know, after some time,。
the youth pastor, he labeled me as a troublemaker.。
And he actually asked me not to come back to youth group.。
(audience laughing)。
Now, I didn't want to tell my parents.。
So I just kept coming, just kept coming back.。
But you know what made the difference for me?。
Was that why, you know, it was not just him,。
was other people that sort of had given up on me,。
that had cut me off, cut the cost, you know,。
I don't want to deal with him.。
But there was one guy named Wolfram, awesome German name.。
And he, you know, he started caring for me,。
hanging out with me, going bowling with me,。
my friends before youth group,。
there was like a bowling center right next to that church.。
And, but also starting to speak some truth into my life,。
you know, calling me out on some things that weren't good.。
But it was because of his love and his acceptance。
that after the year was up,。
I decided to continue going to youth group.。
And I know that God worked through this man。
because he, instead of seeing,。
running out of patience and not showing me grace,。
he saw what God wanted to do in my life,。
and he fought for me, he didn't give up on me。
when others had given up on me,。
so that the life of Christ could unfold in my life.。
Amen, that's right.。
(audience laughing)。
And I just wonder, where could we show grace and patience。
and make a big difference in someone else's life?。
Who is God calling you to fight for and not give up on?。
We show grace and patience,。
not just to put up with other people.。
A lot of times when you talk about patience,。
like God give me patience。
so I can put up with this other person,。
make it through the day.。
You know, that's like a lot of times。
how as Christians we think about patience,。
so I can just put up with somebody。
and move on with my life.。
It's not that, not that I say it loud,。
it's kind of, that's true, right?。
Yes, yes, yes, okay, good.。
But God doesn't just want us to put up with people.。
He wants us to fight for people,。
for the life of Christ to unfold in their lives.。
He wants us to be people who show patience and grace,。
you know, so that others can know Jesus,。
that they can know his love,。
that they're not written off and forgotten.。
That's what he calls us to do.。
So, but how do we actually have this patience?。
Well, it's all great, you know,。
you're talking about his patience,。
but I don't have any patience, pastor.。
What do I do?。
Well, there's a few things that we can do,。
but ultimately, and I'll share those in a second,。
but ultimately it is the Holy Spirit works on our life.。
This is a supernatural work of God in your life.。
You know, you're not gonna love somebody。
who doesn't feel great about you。
unless the power of God,。
the love of God is at work in your life.。
And that's where Christians are called to be different。
than other people.。
We're not showing patience to people we like,。
we show patience to all kinds of people,。
even when sometimes it's hard for us,。
and we're gonna seek their wellbeing,。
we're gonna seek what's good for them,。
'cause we wanna see God's goodness unfold in their lives.。
But, so what are some things that we do?。
Well, the first one, there's three things.。
The first one is we can pray to God。
and ask him to give us patience.。
Now, this for me is actually like an ongoing dialogue.。
It's not like, you know, one time at night I pray,。
five weeks ago, it forgot to give me patience.。
This is like every day, Jesus, give me patience.。
Forgive me for not being patient for other persons.。
Jesus, help me to seek the goodness of this person's life,。
even though I don't feel like it right now.。
Jesus, you know, give me grace.。
Jesus, forgive me for my attitude, blah, blah, blah.。
So this ongoing dialogue。
and relationship with God the Father.。
And when we do that, we give the Holy Spirit space。
'cause we're surrendering to God.。
Our Lord, here, here I am.。
You know, change me, transform me,。
make me a different person.。
And then the Holy Spirit works.。
Now, it's a very incremental change most of the time,。
meaning it's a slow process.。
But he really transforms who we are。
so that we can fight for people, for their well-being,。
be patient, be graceful, even in a different way。
because the Spirit of God is at work on us.。
So that's the first thing is praying.。
The second is we can practice being patient。
with others in our daily lives.。
Now, a lot of times you wanna do the big hero moment。
like Wolfram, who stepped up and showed patience to me.。
You know, it's like, I'm gonna be a hero.。
I'm gonna step up.。
I'm gonna show, you know, this very problematic youth child,。
you know, patience and grace.。
But actually, the way we become patient people。
is we practice daily in the little things in our lives.。
You know, patience with our spouses,。
patience with our friends, patience with our parents,。
patience with the people walking slowly in front of us,。
patience, you know, this is the training ground。
where we surrender and submit to God。
and ask him to give us patience.。
And then thirdly, we can meditate on God's patience,。
grace, and forgiveness he has shown us.。
A lot of times I find when I lack grace and patience。
for someone, I actually have forgotten。
what Jesus has done for me.。
And so when I go back to what Jesus has done for me,。
when I start not just quickly thinking about it,。
but actually taking time, saying, thank you, Jesus,。
you know, that you died for my sins on the cross,。
that you're so patient to even go to the cross for me,。
so graceful to do that for me, you know,。
with all my sin, all my junk,。
but you were willing to do that.。
So then suddenly as I meditate and pray over that。
and read that and give God thanks for that,。
then it puts this other little thing。
where I'm lacking grace, where I'm lacking patience,。
it puts that into perspective.。
And it's like, oh yeah, that's right.。
Sorry, Lord, that you showed me so much grace and patience,。
and I can't even show in this little instance。
grace and patience to this other person.。
And so those are three ways that we can invite。
the Holy Spirit to work and to bear。
the fruit of patience in our lives,。
and to become people who start fighting。
for the well-being, the flourishing of others,。
and that we can show this patience and grace。
so that can unfold in their lives.。
Now I wanna invite the worship team to come up,。
and I have some reflection questions for you.。
Where is your patience being tested right now?。
This past week, past month, this morning,。
on the way to church.。
Who are you struggling to be patient with?。
I found that I sometimes have certain personality types。
that I struggle with.。
You know, who are you struggling to be patient with?。
And then thirdly, who is God calling you to fight for,。
show grace and patience to, and not give up on?。
So I just wanna invite right now just a time of prayer.。
We're gonna take two minutes just for you and yourself,。
between you and God, just come before and just pray to Him,。
and ask Him to meet you in whatever is going on,。
wherever you need that patience and grace,。
or maybe He's highlighting somebody。
He wants you to fight for.。
And I just want to invite you to connect with God。
and to connect with the Holy Spirit.。
And so then two minutes time, I'll close us in a prayer.。
So let's do that right now.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
I wanna invite everyone to stand.。
(gentle music)。
And just as a pastor, just wanting to receive from God,。
I wanna invite you to stretch out your hands。
in front of you.。
It's like a posture of surrender, like, "Lord, here I am.。
"Just meet me.。
"Let me pray over you."。
Jesus, I thank you first and foremost。
that you have grace and patience for us.。
And maybe as some of us right now,。
we're reflecting, maybe we just felt bad。
about something that happened.。
But I thank you that you love forgiving us,。
that you love showing us grace,。
that you love showing us patience.。
So I pray right now that you show your love and grace。
and patience to those where that was what was going on.。
But Lord, I also thank you that we're a work in progress,。
that you are not finished with us,。
that you are shaping and molding us into patient people,。
graceful people that reflect your character。
in our everyday lives to the people around us.。
And Lord, I pray that as a church and as people,。
you would strengthen us, you would grow us,。
the Holy Spirit, that you would bear that fruit。
of patience in our lives,。
that we would be a patient church,。
that we would be patient with each other。
and graceful with each other,。
that we can be patient and graceful with those around us.。
And Lord, I pray that you strengthen us right now。
where we need that patience and grace,。
where we don't have it, where we're empty,。
but that you will give it.。
Lord, will you release your grace。
and your patience on us right now?。
Will you renew us?。
Will you strengthen us?。
And will you allow us to be people who for one,。
fight for one another here in this church,。
that we love each other,。
that we fight for each other's wellbeing,。
'cause we wanna see Christ fully formed in each other.。
But I also pray that you just put individuals。
on our hearts and minds,。
where we're the right person to fight for them.。
Whether today or later in the week,。
you just highlight someone,。
Tim, I want you to fight for this person.。
I want you to fight for that person.。
And Lord, will you give us the grace。
and the strength to do that?。
So Lord, we thank you for your love,。
your patience, your grace, for your work in our lives.。
And we give you all the praise and glory.。
And pray this in your name, Jesus, amen.。
