Good to be here.。
Good to see you all.。
I know not every one of us is from Hong Kong here,。
but we stay here right now.。
If you like, if you enjoy staying in Hong Kong,。
can I ask you to put your hands together?。
Like, if you like staying in Hong Kong, that's awesome.。
Like, you know, in Hong Kong we're known。
for quite a number of things,。
such as we have a super impressive skyline。
and we have this amazing view from the peak.。
And if you haven't been there before, you should do it.。
Don't just watch it on the movie.。
You should go there.。
We are quite famous for our dim sum.。
True story, when I first met Rosalind,。
I was in Singapore and I think she asked me,。
"Have you tried Tim Ho Wan?"。
I'm like, "What's that?"。
Apparently, apparently it's a dim sum restaurant。
originally from Hong Kong.。
I'm like, "Okay, we're known for our dim sum."。
We, yeah, sorry about that.。
I tried that in Hong Kong, okay?。
It's really nice, go and try it.。
And we have some famous people, movie stars,。
like Bruce Lee, but nobody talks about Bruce Lee now.。
If you talk about a Hong Konger who's popular in Hollywood,。
you talk about this guy called Jimmy Ouyang right now.。
Okay, now I get some response, uh-huh.。
And so you know Hong Kong is just this place。
where East meets West.。
You have all sorts of culture here.。
We're quite proud of who we are.。
We're quite proud of all these great things。
that I just mentioned.。
But just like any other city on this planet,。
there are things we're known for,。
things that perhaps we're not so proud of.。
For instance, we are known for our high stress。
and our mental health crisis in our workplace and schools.。
So can we have the next slide?。
According to a global talent trend study。
by an HR consultant firm in 2022, just three years ago,。
95% of employees in Hong Kong feel at risk of burnout.。
Ooh, it was the highest amount Asian markets.。
And the reason they mentioned were the unfair treatment。
relative to their peers, 40% of them said that.。
Like, come on, like our bosses treat us differently.。
Or they are not being rewarded fairly for,。
or proportionately for the amount of work done.。
At least also 40% of them said that.。
And there's another study from AXA,。
the insurance company just last year,。
showing that 77% of workers in the city。
have experienced at least one mental health issue。
stemming from their jobs.。
Like every four people going to work here。
in our workforce here,。
there are three of them experiencing mental health issues.。
Isn't that crazy?。
Like, and okay, just don't even get me started。
with the students, you know, data's with the students.。
I'm not gonna dive in there.。
You know, I'll be super emotional.。
So I'm not going there.。
But I just wanna say this, the city of Hong Kong is exhausted。
and this is not a figure of speech.。
It's not a poetic exaggeration,。
but it is a statistically reality,。
like that statistical reality that we've seen。
with all these statistics and research.。
We just mentioned, we are so stressed to a point。
that we become very serious about something.。
In Hong Kong, we're very serious。
about vacations and holidays.。
Yeah, right?。
You know, we always think about when's my next vacation?。
Where am I going next?。
To a point that we came up with strategic guidelines。
for teaching people how to maximize their annual leave.。
Look at this, like if you take two annual leave。
and you get like, what, like nine days off。
with all the public holidays,。
we have strategic guides for that.。
Can you believe that?。
We're so stressed in what we do.。
We're so stressed in our workplace.。
And burnout, it's a buzzword right now.。
We hear about that all the time, right?。
It's a word that was coined, like, I guess,。
just in the last two or three decades.。
But everybody in this city knows what it means.。
Or maybe a lot of us, over 95% of us,。
we might have experienced some symptoms of being burned out.。
So let me just put some words to define what it is.。
Burnout basically means like,。
either being physically or emotionally exhausted,。
a cynicism and detachment or feelings of ineffectiveness。
and lack of accomplishment.。
Come on, we call that Tuesday, right?。
Or Monday, sorry.。
So, and a high percentage of people in our workforce。
is experiencing this right now.。
Maybe it's either you,。
or the person sitting next to you in the office,。
or just a guy down the row,。
or the guy you never talk to, I don't know.。
But this collective fatigue, this shared ache,。
or this restlessness many of us would experience。
deep down in the spirit, it transcends industries.。
Basically, everybody, like, in different industries,。
they experience that.。
It transcends ethnicity.。
You don't have to be in a certain, like,。
people group or people type to experience that.。
It transcends age as well.。
Like, young people experience that,。
old people feel that as well.。
And in fact, it is a very modern,。
urban expression of a very ancient problem.。
So let me explain that.。
We began this sermon series we call。
Stewarding Our Lives last week,。
and we, last week, Pastor Tim talked about。
the original design of work, the goodness of work.。
God, of course, he was the first worker,。
and he designed labor not as a punishment,。
but as a dignified and essential act of cultivation,。
a partnership in his creative project.。
We, as humans, made in his image.。
We were supposed to be his partner,。
doing this together, enjoying it.。
But this reality that we just mentioned last week。
presents a core tension that every working person,。
especially in our city, would feel.。
If work was designed for our flourishing,。
then why is it now so often the primary source。
of our anxiety, frustration, and depletion?。
It's also our work.。
Why does the place of our greatest potential contribution。
so frequently feel like the site of our greatest drain?。
So many of us have been around long enough.。
We talk about all these different problems in life.。
You know, we talk about our problematic relationships.。
We talk about, like, you know, a broken self-image.。
We talk about these damaged relationships。
or destructive behavior.。
We talk about all these,。
and almost every single time when we talk about this,。
on stage, I'll bring you back to one particular page。
on the Bible.。
You know, in fact, I uploaded all my sermons to AI,。
like all my sermons preaching in this church to AI,。
and I asked AI, "Hey, AI, how many times have I preached。
"on Genesis 3 in the Vineyard Long?"。
And it says seven times.。
So I guess this is the eighth time I'm gonna talk。
about Genesis 3 with all of us.。
But before we dive in to Genesis 3,。
I just wanna give us, before we look into it,。
I know we talked about this passage。
in all different locations.。
We talk about all different sorts of problems。
we have in life, but I do wanna highlight something。
before we jump in, that yes,。
Genesis 3 is about the fall, is about sin,。
but sin, it's never just about a personal or a private life.。
It also affects our public life, our social life,。
and it surely affects our work.。
So this is where we're coming from today.。
This is how we're going to look at this passage today.。
Let's look at Genesis 3, verses 16 to 19.。
So to the woman, which is God,。
to the woman God said, oh, these words are so small now.。
Okay.。
It's just the glasses, just the glasses.。
To the woman he said, "I will make your pains。
"in childbearing very severe.。
"With painful labor, you will give birth to children.。
"Your desire will be for your husband,。
"and he will rule over you."。
To Adam, God said, "Because you listened to your wife。
"and ate fruit from the tree about which I commanded you,。
"you must not eat from it.。
"Cursed is the ground because of you.。
"Through painful toil, you will eat food from it。
"all the days of your life.。
"It will produce thorns and thistles for you,。
"and you will eat the plants of the field.。
"By the sweat of your brow, you will eat your food。
"until you return to ground,。
"since from it you were taken.。
"From dust you are, and to dust you will return."。
Let me say this up front.。
This passage, although it talks about all these fruits。
or the ground and planting and trees and all that,。
this passage, it's not a simple story。
about ancient agriculture,。
but it's a foundational paradigm。
for all human labor in the fallen world.。
It has something to do with every single one of us here.。
The thorns and thistles that God speaks of,。
they are not just merely some troublesome plants.。
They are actually representing, it's a profound metaphor,。
representing the very frustrations,。
the fatalities, the pains culminating。
in the modern experience of burnout。
in perhaps your life or my life。
that it's basically in our everyday work nowadays.。
To understand this ancient curse。
is to take the first critical step。
toward finding the gospel cure of it.。
So in order to understand this, oh, sorry,。
that passage we just read, we are going to,。
I'm gonna put another passage side by side on the screen,。
which is Genesis 1:28, which says this.。
"God blessed them, Adam and Eve,。
"and said to them, 'Be fruitful and increase in number.。
"'Fill the earth and subdue it.。
"'Rule over the fish in the sea and the birds in the sky。
"'and over every living creature that moves on the ground.'。
"In God's original blessing and command to human,。
"there are at least two parts.。
"First, be fruitful, multiply, to reproduce, if you will,。
"which means this is something we have to achieve。
"through natural birth,。
"bringing forth new lives in families."。
Of course, I'm a father myself,。
and I know that in this whole process。
of increasing in number of reproduction,。
Mommy is a real hero in this picture, okay?。
And Mommy's in the service now, okay?。
In Chinese service, she wasn't.。
So Mommy is a real hero here.。
She does basically all the heavy lifting。
from the baby being just a seat like that in the womb。
all the way, after 10 months,。
became a full-on baby, three pound,。
and then you have to give birth to a baby.。
That whole process, Mommy has a lot of work to do,。
and God has given mothers this beautiful,。
life-giving capacity to nurture a new life。
in the womb for 10 long months.。
Round of applause for all the mothers, yay!。
[audience applauding]。
Okay, just because my wife is here, that's why I do that.。
Anyway, the ability is not just,。
this ability to bring forth new life,。
it's not just for the continuation of our species,。
but it's for the fulfillment。
of the original command and blessing, just right there.。
But now the labor to bring forth new life,。
like all other aspects of human life,。
it's under the curse of sin.。
That's why on this side, you see that.。
You see that now, when women give birth,。
they will go through a lot of pain.。
Trust me, I witnessed that two times.。
I know it's really like a lot of pain.。
Even being squeezed on the other side,。
I could feel a little bit of that pain.。
I know the real pain is so much more severe.。
So yeah, wow, right?。
Yeah, yeah, I feel a little bit as well.。
So the original Hebrew word for pain here。
is this word called isabon.。
It's often translated as pain,。
but as well as toil or painful labor。
or hardship or even sorrow.。
The funny thing is that it occurred another time。
just in the next verse.。
Sorry, could I have the last slide back again?。
Thank you.。
This word appear again in verse 17,。
when God says, "Cursed is the ground because of you。
"through painful toil, through this isabon,。
"you will eat food from it all the days of your life."。
So we see that both men and women, when they sin,。
they both were under this curse.。
They both went through some sort of pain in different ways.。
The biblical author deliberately used this parallel。
to establish a profound connection between the two,。
that the pain now infects most。
of our intimate, relational, and creative life。
that is in childbearing,。
and the pain that infects our vocational life,。
working on the ground,。
they all spring from the same cursed source.。
And not just that,。
both are actually a distortion of a pre-fall good.。
You see that originally God commanded and blessed humans。
to bring forth new life, to reproduce,。
and God asked human to rule over, to subdue the earth.。
And now these are the exact areas where Adam and Eve,。
they were under curse right now in childbearing。
and in their vocation, in their working on the ground.。
But the curse didn't just stop at bearing,。
painful childbirth, it goes actually deeper,。
especially that relational curse or brokenness,。
it goes way deeper.。
It goes into our most intimate relationships.。
God said to the woman, He said,。
your desire will be for your husband。
and he will rule over you.。
Now, if we wanna understand。
what this word desire really means,。
the Bible actually gives us a massive clue。
in the next chapter.。
In chapter four, we know that Adam and Eve,。
they brought forth two children, Cain and Abel.。
And you know, the two of them were trying。
to bring offering to God and God loves Abel's offering,。
but not so, so with Cain's offering。
and Cain was really angry.。
He was really pissed off.。
And God says this to him in Genesis chapter four.。
Oh, my tiny Bible with small words.。
Here we go.。
I'm okay, I'm okay, I'm still young.。
Then the Lord said to Cain, why are you angry?。
Why is your face downcast?。
If you do what is right, will you not be accepted?。
But if you do not do what is right,。
sin, it's crouching at your door,。
it desires to have you, but you must rule over it.。
Sin desires you, you must rule over it.。
God said to the woman, you will desire for your husband,。
but he will rule over you.。
So if you wanna understand the real meaning。
of what desire here is,。
we put these verses side by side together。
and you have a conclusion that this word desire。
probably doesn't mean intimacy,。
doesn't mean, oh, I want his love.。
It's not like that.。
It means a desire to consume, to control, to dominate.。
So what God is describing here is a tragic breakdown。
of the original partnership between men and women,。
between Adam and Eve.。
What was created to be beautiful, a harmonious relationship。
is now twisted into a power struggle.。
It becomes a cycle of one person sinfully。
desiring to control over the other.。
And then the other responded,。
responding with a distorted sinful rule.。
And that's how relationships start to break down.。
And right here, the very fabric of a human relationship,。
the foundation of community and family is torn apart。
by our turn to self-centeredness.。
When we're under the curse of sin,。
it's not just the pain that ladies,。
like they experience in their childbirth.。
It's this curse, this pain, this distorted relationship。
that we experience in every level of our social life,。
of our intimate relationships.。
And this brokenness doesn't just stay in our homes.。
It spills right into our world of work, our workplaces.。
So in the next verse, the curse isn't on Adam himself,。
but on the ground.。
The very domain of his work.。
God says, "Cursed is the ground because of you."。
Remember, this man, Adam, he was formed from the ground。
and the ground in Hebrew is adamah.。
So man is adam, adam and adamah.。
Originally, man, Adam, was taken out of adamah,。
was taken out of the ground.。
It meant that they used to have this beautiful partnership。
in the beautiful project of creation.。
Man and the ground, they used to be partners.。
When men work on the ground together,。
they bring forth the beauty,。
the glory of God in his whole creation.。
But now the relationship is fundamentally broken.。
The ground, which was supposed to be Adam's partner,。
now becomes his adversary.。
Work is no longer just a joyful process of cultivation,。
like Pastor Tim talked about last week.。
It now becomes a struggle against a resistant world.。
Isn't that what we feel at work sometimes?。
Like I'm trying to work hard,。
but it feels like something is working against me.。
It could be someone, it could be some people,。
it could be the system, it could be all sorts of things。
trying to work against me.。
Every morning when I send my girls to school,。
I feel even the traffic lights are working against me.。
Like, come on, come on, come on.。
And God gives this powerful picture for this reality.。
It says in verse 18,。
it will produce thorns and thistles for you.。
And let's be honest,。
God is not talking about weeds in the garden.。
Thorns and thistles are the unforeseen complications。
that wreck our best laid plans.。
It could be team conflicts that drain our energy.。
It could be the broken system we have to fight against.。
It could be the market that will suddenly crash.。
It could be the computer that dies right before the deadline.。
Anything that is hindering you from doing your work,。
from being productive, from being fruitful in your work,。
those are the thorns and thistles.。
And we have all these,。
we have thorns and thistles in every single part of our work。
or even in our lives.。
When we try to bring forth something good,。
we always feel or face opposition.。
We always face the obstacles.。
There are things that are trying to stop us。
to do what is good,。
to do what we're supposed to do, or just simply,。
and I'm just trying to do my job.。
Can life be a little bit more easier?。
You know, this is so difficult for us sometimes.。
Thorns and, okay, bless you.。
(congregation laughing)。
Thorns and thistles are everywhere。
in every part of our life, especially in our work.。
They are there.。
And finally, in verse 19, we see this.。
God says, "By the sweat of your brow,。
"you will eat your food."。
This tells us that our labor,。
it's now this exhausting struggle,。
often just for survival.。
In Cantonese, we say, (speaking in foreign language)。
We're just trying to earn our bread from hand to mouth.。
We're just trying to survive,。
not even trying to think, dream big,。
or think about more amazing things and all that.。
And I know we have an executive coach here。
and he does all this stuff, like talking about,。
"So what's your plan, what do you wanna achieve?"。
We're not even talking about that,。
I'm just talking about surviving here.。
And that's what's happened.。
That's a constant struggle, being humans,。
after the fall in this fallen world.。
And it all culminates to this final heartbreaking reality.。
God says, "For thus you are, and to thus you will return."。
We're not just talking about fruitlessness in our work.。
We're not just talking about all the obstacles.。
We're talking about after everything you've done,。
every effort you've paid in your work,。
ultimately, under the sun, they're pointless.。
Like you've done so much to build something,。
when you're gone, the next person pick it up。
and they just wipe everything out.。
It's as though you've done nothing。
to build anything in the past。
and all your effort was just pointless.。
And this is where, in the Bible,。
there's a book called Ecclesiastes.。
It says this, it says like,。
it's like chasing the wind,。
when all the greatest success。
that you're so proud of in your life,。
they're swallowed by death in the end.。
Like making all your hard work really, really empty.。
It's nothing.。
You thought you did something great.。
Sorry, when you die, it's nothing.。
Nobody will remember it.。
Nobody will remember you.。
It's nothing, it's chasing the wind.。
So in simple terms, the curses in Genesis 3, 16 to 19,。
it's indeed a tragic reversal。
of God's original blessings from Genesis 1, 28.。
God's initial design was for humans。
to experience joyful, fruitful experience。
in building families and society,。
to find dignity in caring for creation through work.。
And however, after humanity's rebellion,。
these blessings were corrupted.。
And the joy of childbearing now turned into pain.。
And marital harmony was replaced by power struggle.。
Meaningful work becomes lifelong painful toil。
against a cursed ground,。
a struggle which would ultimately end in death,。
in meaningless death.。
That's where all this pressure comes from, right?。
You know, right now in our society or in this generation,。
we talk about burnout so much。
that at least in this part of the world,。
we have the next generation, they have a countermeasure.。
They call that like lying flat and not doing anything.。
They just lie flat on the ground.。
Actually, there is this philosophy called existentialism,。
telling people that there is actually no meaning in life,。
despite all you do, despite all that you try to build,。
all that you plant, there's no meaning in life.。
So why don't you just chill?。
And we see that right now because of all the burnout,。
because of this ancient problem we're facing,。
that leads to the burnout we're feeling.。
This generation is saying, I don't see any meaning in life.。
I see life work is meaningless.。
Why don't we just chill?。
Why don't we do nothing and just, I don't know, just be?。
And just, I don't know, just try to enjoy life.。
It's meaningless anyway.。
If we continue to live under this curse,。
it could look a little bit like that,。
look quite meaningless.。
But now after hearing all this,。
it's very important for me to say what I'm gonna say next.。
It will be easy to think that work itself, it's a curse,。
but that's totally not what the Bible。
is trying to teach us.。
We have to be super clear.。
I don't want you to go out from church today。
and thinking, oh yeah, my work is cursed.。
Pastor Chapman says so.。
Maybe I should just retire or quit my job,。
take all my saving and travel around.。
No, I'm not saying that.。
I'm not saying work is evil.。
I'm not saying work is a curse.。
Work is still a good thing.。
Work was there in the beginning, in the garden,。
before sin ever entered the picture, work was there.。
Work is good.。
It's part of God's original design for us.。
God himself worked to create this world。
and he made us in his image to be his partners,。
co-workers, so that to joyfully bring forth。
potential in his creation.。
I know we preached that last week,。
but I just feel I need to preach a disclaimer.。
I'm not saying, after everything I talked about,。
I'm not saying work is a curse,。
but work itself is not a curse.。
The curse is the frustration of work.。
Let me say this again.。
The curse isn't work itself,。
though you experience a lot of hardship in work,。
but the curse itself is not work.。
The curse is the frustration of work.。
There's a pastor who passed away recently.。
His name is Tim Keller.。
He said this, "Work is not itself a curse,。
"but it now lies with all other aspects of human life。
"under the curse of sin."。
There's another author, John Mark Comer.。
He says this, "Our work in this broken world,。
"it's now marked by thorns and thistles。
"and a nagging sense of dissatisfaction."。
No matter how hard you try,。
no matter how many jobs you change,。
no matter how much you fantasize,。
you try to be nice to everyone at work,。
there's still this dissatisfaction inside of us,。
inside of our hearts.。
And this is that exactly what we feel。
like when we work, when we go, you know, Monday morning,。
maybe that's exactly how you feel.。
Our work, although this could look like that picture,。
although there is a frustration of work,。
but we know that our work can still be fruitful.。
Well, God says, at least God says you can eat。
from the plants of the field.。
Well, at least you will still create something.。
At least you can feed yourself.。
And we can still find moments of purpose if we try to.。
But now, this purpose, this moment, this productivity。
is always mixed with struggles, with pain,。
and we're never fully satisfied in our hearts。
the way God originally intended us to.。
So why do we still go to work?。
There was this video in Hong Kong circulating。
like a couple of years ago.。
It was a blue collar construction worker.。
So people, his friends just filmed and asked him,。
hey, why do you work?。
Is it because of love?。
Is it because of responsibility?。
Because I'm poor!。
(audience laughing)。
Yeah.。
Isn't it fascinating that,。
yeah, you know I screen out a lot of words, right?。
If you watch the original thing.。
Isn't it fascinating that what the Bible described。
thousands of years ago,。
it's what our social scientists are discovering today。
when they study burnout.。
Like, you know, in fact, studies done right here in Hong Kong。
have found in all these bigger courses of burnout。
are things like interpersonal conflict,。
relationships with colleagues and managers,。
or lack of support at work.。
Like, come on, Adam and Eve, they experienced that.。
They experienced that firsthand.。
We're just continuing that life in the curse.。
This show us something very important here.。
A huge part of our stress at work,。
it doesn't just come from work itself.。
I mean the thorns and thistles from the ground.。
It comes from the broken relationships we have to navigate.。
The thorns and thistles that grow between people.。
There are thorns and thistles between people。
sometimes as well.。
You see the curse on our relationship。
and the curse on our work,。
they're not two separate problems.。
In fact, they are one single,。
they're from one single tangled root system,。
feeding each other and creating this deep。
and overwhelming frustrations in our lives.。
It's one problem.。
It's in the work, it's in a relationship,。
but they're tangled together.。
So all the burnout, all the stress that we're experiencing,。
it's not just from the work.。
It's from all these broken relationships as well.。
But beneath all these external pressures,。
there's a deep spiritual reason for your burnout.。
And the Bible calls that idolatry.。
Idolatry means when we look to our work。
to give what only God is meant to give.。
That is our identity, our meaning, our security.。
Well, there's an example in the Bible,。
the ancient like a tower of Babel,。
when men built that, they would say,。
"We're gonna make a name for ourselves."。
How many of us we go to work nowadays。
just wanna make a name for ourselves?。
I just wanna be seen.。
I just wanna be heard.。
I just wanna be known.。
I just want people recognize my effort.。
I just want, you know, or maybe in some industries,。
they have annual awards.。
I just wanna stand on that stage, receive that award。
to show people that I'm capable,。
to show people that I'm qualified,。
to show people that I have what it takes.。
We always try to work to prove something.。
We always try to work to make a name for ourselves,。
to prove our identity, to prove our values.。
We'll talk about idolatry in the next couple of weeks,。
so I'm not gonna dive deep here,。
but I just wanna say that。
that's part of the cause of our burnout.。
That's a very deep spiritual root in our burnout.。
Burnout is the inevitable collapse。
that happens when we place an infinite weight,。
which is a need for salvation and purpose and security。
on something finite, like a job.。
It was never designed to carry that weight。
and it's destined to crush us.。
If you wanna prove who you are,。
if you wanna find your identity, find your worth,。
find your value and all those things,。
you are doomed to be crushed in your life.。
This is especially true here in Hong Kong,。
where the intensely competitive culture。
demands relentless performance.。
This external pressure finds a willing partner。
in our own hearts, which are already desperate。
to find self-worth through achievements.。
There's a destructive cycle here.。
Burnout here, it's more than just a stress problem.。
Church, this is a spiritual crisis.。
It's the unspoken religion of our city here。
that the false gospel is saying,。
save yourself, make a name for yourself。
through your success, through your achievement.。
If you could do better, you can save yourself.。
If you could work harder and achieve more,。
then you will be recognized and you can save yourself.。
And the true remedy must go deeper。
than just practical tips.。
Hey, five practical tips to prevent burnout.。
We need something deeper.。
We need to address the lie that is in the roots.。
I know a lot of you have been with us for a while。
and you've heard I share a lot of stories about myself.。
One of that happened when I was young.。
I was living with just my dad back then,。
just the two of us, and there was one day。
I stole money from my dad.。
Well, anyway, teacher found out, my dad found out,。
he was furious, and I was lectured.。
And from that day on, I carry a broken heart inside of me.。
When I was a kid, every single day。
when I look into a mirror, I see a bad person in the mirror.。
I'm so ashamed of myself,。
but I desperately need somebody to love me, to recognize me.。
And I realized when I was young,。
when I was about five or six,。
if I could perform, if I could be smart,。
if I could be outstanding in some areas,。
then I would gain people's love.。
I could win their love back.。
I could win their attention.。
And so I tried to perform and perform and perform.。
I did at school, I joined drama, music,。
and all these things, just stand on the stage。
just to do this, and so people would love me more.。
And I've been doing that.。
And I've been trying so hard just to earn some love。
through my performance.。
And then at the same time, some of you knew that as well,。
I carry my own thorns and thistles in my life.。
That is my ADHD, or more precisely, my undiagnosed ADHD.。
I went through so much hardship, so much toil,。
so much failure, I cried so many times。
because I tried to do something,。
but I failed again and again and again and again and again.。
I struggle, I wrestle with my own thorns。
and thistles in my life.。
And when these two combine together, it doesn't help.。
It just makes my life even more miserable.。
But at the age of 30, for the first time in my life,。
I walked through the doors of a psychiatric clinic.。
Went to see a psychiatrist, and he told me these words.。
He said, "Hey, Mr. Fu, yes, you can confirm。
"that you have ADHD."。
I remember when I walked out of that clinic that day,。
I asked God a question.。
I asked God, "Why now?"。
Oh, but let me tell you a little bit about the backstory.。
Perhaps I didn't tell you, when I was in uni,。
which I didn't complete, I was majoring in social work,。
which means all my teachers, all my lecturers, professors,。
they're either professional psychologists。
or they are registered social workers.。
And when I was at the age of 20,。
I, well, studied a little bit of social work,。
mental health stuff, and then I went to class。
and asked my teacher.。
I said, "Professor, do you think I have ADHD?"。
She said, "Nah, if you have ADHD, you wouldn't be here."。
Nah, so I brushed that idea off.。
And I had 10 miserable years after that.。
When I walked out of that clinic, I asked God, "Why now?"。
You could have made my teacher said yes 10 years ago.。
You know that, right, God?。
You know that you could, right?。
Do I have to remind you?。
And I just saw God gently come and ask me this question.。
If I let you choose all over again, how would you choose?。
Then I realized two things on that day.。
Number one, yes, I do struggle with my thorns and thistles。
in my life, in my formative years.。
I had some really, really low moments,。
really, really bad days.。
I even went through some sort of depression.。
But my thorns and thistles also led me to a place。
where I experienced the unconditional love of God。
like nowhere else.。
My thorns and thistles brought me to a place。
where I experienced his love for me,。
that he calls me his son.。
He loves me no matter what,。
that he's not counting on my mistakes。
or counting my mistakes.。
He's not trying to ask me to prove myself to him.。
He just loves me as I am.。
I got to experience that, not in my achievements,。
not in my success.。
I got to experience that in the lowest place in my life。
where my thorns and thistles pushed me into that place.。
(congregation applauding)。
And so perhaps, yeah, thorns and thistles,。
they're not pretty desirable,。
but maybe it's a way for us to find a connection with God。
that we could never find elsewhere.。
I remember walking out of the clinic that day.。
I realized something.。
I realized how much God's love has changed me。
in the last 10 years,。
how I realize who I am in him.。
I'm his son.。
I have security like I never had before.。
I'm not trying to count on my performance.。
I'm not trying to win anyone's approval or love anymore.。
I'm just starting to feel secure in being the child of God.。
And God says this.。
Says, yeah, you know, Chapman, in the past,。
you work for your identity.。
I guess many of us do that as well.。
We work for our identity.。
If we have better results,。
if we get better grades at school,。
if we have a better portfolio at work,。
maybe you earn more money or you get certain awards。
or whatever way of KPI,。
and you are a person that is more worthy.。
That's how we see ourselves.。
We always, in this culture,。
this performance-driven culture,。
we always work for our identity.。
But God says, have you noticed。
now you're working from your identity。
when you know you're my son?。
I share with some of you,。
there's one time I was asked to translate at an event.。
I've never done Mandarin Cantonese before.。
I was super nervous.。
I was so nervous that if I,。
what if I got on stage,。
my mind just went blank and what would happen?。
Like I'll be (speaks in foreign language)。
I'll be (groans)。
Like people just look at me and they will laugh at me.。
And then God just,。
Holy Spirit just taught me to pray this.。
Chapman just declared that when you walk on that stage,。
I'm the son of God, no more, no less.。
And that security,。
the sense of security just start to fill me。
from head to toe.。
And God says, do you notice right now。
the journey I've brought you through。
because of your thorns and thistles。
is a journey from you working for your identity。
to now you're working from your identity, son.。
Did you even notice that?。
So if I let you choose again,。
what would you choose?。
Do you wanna avoid these thorns and thistles?。
Do you just want a quick fix?。
God says in your 20s,。
if I give you a quick fix in your 20s,。
if the teacher said yes to you,。
if you go and see a psychiatrist then。
and all you could be fixed is your performance.。
I only ask God to fix my performance。
so that I could perform。
and I could continue to win favor in my life.。
But God says, I want it to fix,。
I want it to heal your identity.。
We ask God to fix our performances,。
God wants to heal our identities, church.。
So if thorns and thistles are the way,。
I don't like it.。
I still, if I look back,。
I could still cry right now.。
I still feel the pain that it's so born.。
But if you let me choose that again,。
I don't think that is too scary.。
If you could feel the presence,。
the love of your creator,。
loving you for just who you are,。
I'm telling you, that kind of encounter,。
that kind of experience,。
there's nothing else on earth.。
There's no other places in life。
that could compare to that.。
And so I'm gonna finish with this quote。
from John Mark Coma.。
He said, "The curse is perhaps a blessing。
"and a camouflage in disguise.。
"It's God's love in disguise,。
"His mercy incognito."。
We talk a lot about this curse today,。
how undesirable it is,。
how bad it is,。
how much pain it brings us.。
We first know that because of Jesus,。
one day we will be free,。
completely free from this pain.。
But at the same time,。
when we are in that already,。
but not yet,。
when we're still here right now。
on this side of eternity,。
when we're still experiencing that pain。
that was caused by that curse,。
we don't have to be afraid.。
Because we have God,。
even when we are in exile,。
living under this curse,。
He never stopped loving us.。
He never stopped blessing us.。
He never stopped calling us His children,。
His sons, His daughters.。
It is this God we come back to。
through Jesus Christ.。
And it's this God whom we call Father,。
that we're His sons and daughters,。
that we could work from this identity。
as God's sons and daughters。
to bring forth change in this world.。
Therefore, your work today is meaningful.。
It contributes to the ultimate reality。
when Jesus comes back.。
We are building something。
towards the eternal kingdom.。
What we're doing right now,。
it matters if we're not working for our identity,。
if we're working from our identity.。
How about we pray together?。
Let's pray.。
(laughing)。
I first wanna pray for people。
who are struggling with your own thorns and thistles in life,。
in work, in relationships.。
I know it's scary, I know it's painful.。
If that's you, you know that's you,。
you're struggling with this like thorns and thistles,。
struggles and hardship and pain。
and all that in your life right now.。
I just invite you, simply invite you to open your hands。
and allow the Holy Spirit to come。
and pour out His love on you.。
I know for some people, He may take away those struggles,。
but for others, He simply be there with you.。
He simply fill you up with His Holy Spirit,。
fill you up with His love。
and tell you that He will never leave you,。
not ever forsake you.。
He will be there.。
Receive the Holy Spirit.。
Know that God is a God。
who can turn even a curse into a blessing.。
Knowing that despite this curse,。
despite the thorns and thistles in your life right now,。
His love for you will never change.。
He still has a plan for you, a plan to prosper you.。
I do wanna pray for those you know you are working,。
you are pushed to work for your identity right now,。
you're struggling that today.。
I pray that you also invite you to just open up your hands。
and receive the Holy Spirit。
because God says it's His Holy Spirit。
that pours out His love so that you know。
you're secure in your sonship。
or in your relationship with Him as His sons and daughters.。
It's the work of the Holy Spirit.。
It's Him pouring out His love.。
It's His guarantee inside。
that you know for sure,。
you have that assurance that you are a child of God,。
that you could work from that identity.。
So just open your hands and receive the Holy Spirit。
and receive what He wants to do in your life right now.。
I thank you, Jesus.。
Thank you, Jesus.。
Why don't we stand and worship Him together?。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
