Hi, good morning everybody. Yes, we are starting a new series of the sermons and。
definitely will miss up Pastor Tim as he's journey in Germany because usually。
he's the one that will start the first sermon in the series. So today we're。
looking at an eight-week series of sermons looking at the books of Acts,。
which is also called the Acts of the Apostles. Acts refers to the actions and。
deeds of the Apostles after the resurrection of Jesus and the book of。
Acts serve as a bridge between the gospel and the epistles in the New。
Testament, providing the context for the letter written by Apostle Paul and other。
Apostles. The book of Acts actually is very crucial for historical, theological, and。
mission insights, shaping the understanding of the early church and。
its legacy, and it also provides us the insights into the challenges and the。
triumphs faced by the Apostles as they preached the gospel and they established。
the communities of believers at that time. So in this sermon series we will。
focus on both the external and internal uncharted journey that the Holy Spirit。
is taking us on. The external uncharted journey captures the geographical and。
cultural expansion of the early church, while the internal journey focus on the。
spiritual growth and the theological development. Together, through these。
journeys, the book of Acts is still written today as God continues his work。
by the Holy Spirit and through his church. This morning we're looking at Acts。
chapter 1 verses 1 to 11. The book of Acts is generally believed to be composed。
by Luke. He's the physician and he also a companion of Apostle Paul. So Acts。
chapter 1, 1 to 5. Let me read it first. "In my former book, Theophilus, I wrote。
about all that Jesus began to do and to teach until the day he was taken up to。
heaven. After giving instructions through the Holy Spirit to the Apostles he had。
chosen, after his suffering, he presented himself to them and gave many。
convincing proofs that he was alive. He appeared to them over a period of 40。
days and spoke about the kingdom of God. On one occasion while he was eating with。
them he gave them this command, 'Do not leave Jerusalem but wait for the gift my。
father promised which you have heard me speak about. For John baptized with water。
but in a few days you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit.' The opening verse。
of Acts here refers to the former book and it reiterates the focus of what Jesus。
began to do and teach until his ascension. This directly links to two。
texts showing that Acts is a continuation of the story. So it is。
actually like one book with two volumes. So volume one is the Gospel of Luke。
which represents the life of Jesus, the ministry, the miracles, the death, and the。
resurrection of our Lord. And it lays the foundation for us to understand who Jesus。
is and his mission in this world. And volume two is the book of Acts which。
continues this story by focusing on the early church. And Acts does not give us。
the full history of the church during that time and it spends a period of。
about 30 years. And both volumes one and volumes two are addressed to a person。
named Theophilus. This name means God's lover or friend of God. Some suggest he。
may have been a Roman official who's interested in knowing about Jesus and。
others said he could have represent a group of believers. But anyhow he plays a。
significant role as a recipient. So in verses two to five here Luke recalls his。
previous work where he detailed the life of Jesus. And after Jesus' resurrection he。
appeared to the apostles over a period of 40 days, providing them with many。
convincing proof of his resurrection. And during this time Jesus spoke to them。
about the kingdom of God and the coming fulfillment of God's promises. And then。
in verses six to eleven let me read it to you. Then they gathered around him and。
asked him, "Lord are you at this time going to restore the kingdom to Israel?"。
He said to them, "It is not for you to know the times or dates the Father has。
set by his own authority. But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes。
on you and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem, in all Judea and Samaria, and。
to the ends of the earth." And after he said this he was taking up before their。
very eyes and a cloud hid him from their sights. They were looking intently up。
into the sky as he was going when suddenly two men dressed in white stood。
beside them. And they said, "Men of Galilee, why do you stand here looking into the。
sky? This same Jesus who has been taken from you into heaven and will come back。
in the same way you have seen him go into heaven." So when 40 days of。
appearance and the conversation with Jesus, these apostles were beyond doubt.。
They are ready to go and they have many sound proofs and they want to ask and。
they want to know and they ask Jesus if the time has come for Jesus。
to restore the kingdom to Israel. And you probably wonder why the apostles will。
ask such question. And actually this question reflects the Jewish expectation。
and the hopes concerning the Messiah. And of course it also highlights a common。
misconception of the people about the nature of Jesus' mission. The Jewish。
people anticipate a Messiah who will deliver them from foreign oppression. And。
at that time Israel was under the Roman occupation and they longed for political。
freedom and independence. So the apostles likely saw Jesus, he is the one who can。
do that for them. And of course Jesus surely recognized their confusion and。
the expectation of Messiah. Instead of correcting them for this question, Jesus。
used this moment to teach them a lesson about the nature of his mission. He。
redirect their focus from earthly expectation to a larger spiritual。
mandate, putting their focus toward the spiritual empowerment of the Holy Spirit。
and the global mission. They will receive power when the Holy Spirit came upon。
them, enabling them to be his witnesses in Jerusalem, Judea and Samaria and to。
the ends of the earth. Jesus simply told them that the times and seasons were not。
their concern. Their responsibility was to be faithful to him and work。
while they were waiting. And Jesus was in the process of revealing a deeper truth。
about his kingdom. You see God's kingdom is inclusive. It containing diverse。
nations and communities. He knew that the apostles will grow into future roles of。
leaders of the church and also they will grow in understanding as they experience。
the Holy Spirit's empowerment and the unfolding events of the early church.。
However, the apostles were looking for the kingdom at that time and they wanted。
to know now. They didn't realize the kingdom that Jesus was talking about,。
Jesus was bringing this kingdom, would come later and only after a long battle。
of suffering and tears. After this, in Acts chapter 1 verses 10 to 11, Jesus is。
taking up into heaven, disappearing from their sights. As the apostles stood there。
and gazing up into the sky, two men, very likely they are angels, dressed in white。
and suddenly appear in front of them. And these two men asked him, "Why you're。
standing here and looking to the sky? This Jesus that you are looking at and。
living up into the heaven and he will come back." And apparently witnessing。
Jesus ascending into the sky was a profound and unexpected event. The。
apostles gazed into the sky, mirrored their astonishment and a sense of loss.。
And they suddenly realized they would no longer have Jesus physically with them.。
It very likely brought a feeling of sadness to them. But at the same time,。
despite their sorrow, there was also a sense of hope tied to Jesus' promises。
about the Holy Spirit and the continuation of his work through them. So。
the ascension is not just a departure. It represents the beginning of a new。
chapter in God's divine plan. And Jesus is coming back. In Luke chapter 17, Jesus。
compared his second coming to the days of Noah. This analogy emphasized the。
unexpected nature of his return and the need for the people to be vigilant and。
prepared. What happened in Noah's time? In Noah's time, people's life focused on。
earthly matters. They were engaged in their daily routines. Eating, drinking,。
marrying, and living a life as usual and unaware of the impending flood. Jesus。
urged his believers to be alert and watchful as his return will come。
unexpectedly, much like the flood that came suddenly upon in Noah's time. This。
highlights the importance of being spiritually prepared at all times. We。
need to live a life of faith and readiness, actively seeking to align with。
God's will, rather than being complacent or distracted by the earthly matters.。
Unfortunately, how many believers are really prepared for Jesus' return?。
Likewise, as we gaze at the sky, we must ask ourselves, are we just spectators or。
are we ready to act? It's time to turn into action. We all have a call to serve,。
to share the Gospels, to show kindness, to spread the love of Jesus in our。
communities and in this world. Instead of waiting to change, let's be the change we。
want to see. It is our actions and our deeds on the ground that will。
truly reflect the light of Jesus Christ.。
So after Jesus went to heaven, the apostles returned to Jerusalem filled。
with a renewed sense of purpose. They knew they need something more. They needed。
to wait for the Holy Spirit to come upon them, to give them the power to build a。
new kingdom. So they gathered together in prayer and prepared for the coming of the。
Holy Spirit. They did what Jesus told them to do and there's nothing supernatural。
about going back to Jerusalem or gathering for prayers. But they pray as。
they wait. They took the step in front of them. They know how to take and trusting。
Jesus will do what he said he would do at his time. And the waiting is not。
passive. It is an active faith. Church, do you see the apostles? How had gone。
through such a dramatic change between the Gospel of Luke and the book of Acts?。
In volume 1, the disciples were called by Jesus a few times, "Oh you of little faith,"。
in response to their doubts. They were actually cowards, heeding in fear of。
their lives. But in volume 2, something dramatic transformation has happened in。
their lives. The coming of the Holy Spirit at Pentecost marked a turning point.。
They realized that their mission would not be carried out by their own strength,。
but through the empowerment of the Holy Spirit. They waited for the Holy Spirit,。
which Jesus said the Father had promised to send as a gift. This waiting period is。
crucial as it prepared them for their future mission. They waited and they。
waited, never asked how long. And they actually, they did not know how long it。
took. And finally, the coming and the feeling of the Holy Spirit empowered。
them. That explained a great measure of transformation of these men and their。
life. They were not only bold, they are downright courageous and they are ready。
to hold back nothing but to preach the gospel and to live a life for Jesus.。
I wonder today, how many of you are waiting for something in your life?。
Perhaps you're waiting for a better job, waiting for someone to meet, to get。
married, to start a family, waiting for healing of a sickness, or waiting for the。
salvation of your family members, or even you're going through a trial and you're。
waiting for it to come to pass. Or are you standing at the edge of an uncharted。
journey, feeling fearful about taking that very first step? I probably can list。
many more things and still may not be what you're waiting for. But nevertheless,。
we're all waiting for something, right? And in fact, much of our life is waiting.。
Believe it or not. And waiting is no fun. And many times, waiting is very difficult.。
But our lives are full and filled with waiting. We may not be waiting for the。
exact same thing as apostles. But as a believer, please don't allow frustration。
of waiting to diminish our faith. We are to wait upon the promises of God.。
Like the apostles, we may not fully understand how God's promises to us will。
be fulfilled. But we simply need to wait. But remember, every great adventure。
begins with uncertainty. And God is with you every step of the way. And with faith,。
each step will lead you closer to his purpose. Lean on his promises and take。
that move with courage, knowing that he will guide you and will fill your path。
with amazing possibilities. And throughout the scriptures, we see that God never。
fails to do what he has promised. And in every single case, God has proven faithful.。
And in my personal journey, constantly, it is full of waiting. And I would like to。
share with you the most current ones. About two and a half years ago,。
I left my pastor position with another church, which I have engaged for 13 years.。
The law simply told me to be still and wait. And honestly, I have no idea what。
I was waiting. And honestly, I'm still waiting. For what? I don't know.。
But only two things I knew. One is to stay in this church to be a volunteer.。
Two, I knew very well about myself. If I didn't have a traditional paid job。
with income, I would very likely become consumed by anxiety over how to cover my。
rent and everyday expenses. And needless to say, I spent many months。
battling with anxiety and the fear of lack, the fear of not having enough.。
And then one day, God finally broke his silence and he revealed to me two ways he。
will provide me. He used a tube of toothpaste as a metaphor.。
So sometimes he will squeeze out just the right amount. If I need $10,000 for rent,。
he will provide precisely that. And then when I need $400 for groceries,。
he would deliver exactly that. Honestly, this method often feels like a。
struggle and it can be very frustrating and very annoying. I don't know if you。
can imagine that. It's very annoying. And I have to learn to let go of my control。
and learn to trust in it. And then in other times, he will hand me the tube of。
toothpaste, allowing me to squeeze out wherever I want or I need. And then when。
that tube is empty, he may give me another one for me to manage by myself or he may。
keep that tube. And again, he will provide just enough for my daily needs.。
And I have no idea who, when, and how he provides. And I have experienced at least。
three times I went overseas with my children and God only provide airfares。
and lodging. And we have no spending money before we left Hong Kong. And we have to。
live by faith. And upon the arrival of the destination, somehow this amazing God。
somehow will provide for our needs from unexpected source. Living by faith。
financially has been a part of my Christian journey for many years. And I'm。
sure many missionaries can relate to what I'm saying. But to be honest, it's not。
something I have always embraced very well. However, I finally began to。
understand by surrendering to Jesus and submitting to his way and his time.。
Amidst all the ups and downs of uncertain and uncharted waiting, one。
thing remains very clear. He never fails me. He always carry me through on time.。
He never late. He always provides and he keep his promise. And I am very well。
taken care of by my father God. And sometimes I think I really don't deserve。
it. And through this constant waiting upon the law and embracing the unknown,。
there have been many opportunities for me to grow in a deeper and more trusting。
relationship and connection with him. Each day through prayer, worship, and。
surrender, I finally found peace, experienced his glory, and learned to。
depend on him more and more and hopefully one day will be completely.。
His timing is perfect. And by submitting my own desire, my control, and my timeline。
to him, I release my anxieties and open myself to the blessings he has in store.。
This journey has taught me that patience and faith go hand in hand. And in moments。
of uncertainty, he is my unwavering source of strength and guidance. Church, I。
may not know what you are going through, but in the darkest moments when you are。
crying out to God and you don't want to tell anybody, when hope seems so distant。
and the wait seems so long and endless, remember his promise. God will never。
abandon you. He will never leave you or forsake you. His promises are for all his。
children, given by God as our loving Father. The promises of God is the。
promises of our Father. It is always for our good.。
May we have a moment of silence and less wait for our God.。
As you are praying, there's two things I would like to tell you. Those who place。
their trust in the Lord will witness his faithfulness. You see, God's timing is。
perfect because it reflects his divine perspective, allowing him to prepare us。
and align events with his greater purpose. While waiting can be challenging,。
but it will lead to personal growth. When we learn to wait on him, we will develop。
our character, faith, wisdom, and strength.。
The apostles gave us an example to this by not rushing ahead. Instead, they trusted。
in God and received his power at the right moment.。
Do you want to receive that power?。
[Music]。
God's delays are not denials. His promises will be fulfilled. Let patience。
and boldness prepare us to embrace the fullness of his promises.。
The second thing。
God wants to tell you today, through the scriptures, he urged us to take action。
while we wait for him to do what only he can do. And he will act, he will speak, and。
provide exactly what we need to be his instruments of power in this world.。
Do you want to be that instrument?。
[Music]。
Each of us plays an important role in this unfolding story until Jesus returns.。
Empowered by the Holy Spirit, we are actively writing the final chapters, and。
it is our responsibility to remain focused and diligent in fulfilling our。
divine calling. So let us navigate life's uncertainties with hope and confidence,。
and let us rise to occasion and engage fully in our mission.。
And I will give you a moment of silence that you can pray to God and to answer。
his questions that he's asking you.。
Do you want to be filled by his power? Do you want to be the instrument of this。
power?。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
So let us pray.。
Our heavenly Father, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done.。
We come before you with hearts open to your promises. We humble ourselves in。
front of you, Lord. Just as the disciples waited in faith for the Holy Spirit, help。
us to embrace our own seasons of waiting, moment by moment, step by step. Teach us,。
Lord, to trust in your perfect timing and to find peace in the unknown.。
Our precious Lord, remind us that waiting is not a sign of inactivity, but it is an。
opportunity for growth and deeper connection with you. Lord, fill us with。
your Spirit, guiding us as we seek to understand your will for our lives. And。
we surrender our worries and uncertainties. Instill in us a steadfast。
faith that believes in your goodness.。
Oh God, have mercy on us. Help us to let go of our control. Help us to find。
strength in prayer and worship, knowing that you are always with us and help us。
to encourage and support one another in our waiting to trust in your divine plan.。
Lord Jesus, let us be filled with hope, knowing that you are the amazing God。
that you are at work, even though we cannot see and we don't understand. We。
thank you for your faithfulness and for the gift of your presence. In Jesus'。
mighty name we pray, amen. Church, may we stand and let us worship.。
You call me out.。
