Meet with us as we draw close to you.。
We pray this in Jesus' name.。
And the church says, amen.。
Thank you, worship team.。
That was beautiful.。
Let's go.。
Wow, okay.。
You can say hello to the person next to you.。
You know, it might be someone new.。
If you're online, hi.。
Good to see you as well.。
If you have some space next to you, let our host know.。
So if there's people outside who still need to come in,。
there might be a few seats scattered around.。
So host, if you see any hands being held up,。
overflow people, welcome as well.。
If you still wanna come in, there might be a few seats,。
excuse me, dotted around here and there.。
And so, yeah, welcome.。
All right, well, it's always an honor to be here。
sharing God's word with my church family.。
And today we come to the end。
of our Uncharted sermon series.。
You know, it's funny to think,。
who would have thought that God would work through。
a broken phone that Andrew had, right,。
to the journey that we've had in these past few weeks,。
walking through the season of being called。
into the Uncharted.。
Let me just give you a quick reminder。
of the different things that we've talked about。
in this journey so far.。
Now, we started off by being encouraged in obedience to God.。
If there was one word,。
maybe that summarizes everything so far.。
I think obedience might be quite a good one.。
But we're reminded at the start of this journey。
that there will be no map, right?。
There's no strategy, there's no map.。
We're going into areas and places。
and doing things that we've never done before.。
So of course, there can't be a plan for it,。
but we are in response, in obedience。
to what God has called us to do.。
Even if it's not comfortable,。
right, we were challenged to go and to obey.。
And then we talked about like shifting our perspective。
to the way we think, right, to put on God's perspective,。
to think about things from a kingdom。
of a heavenly perspective,。
instead of using our earthly human wisdom。
to judge why we do things.。
As we go on this journey,。
we're also reminded of the likelihood of facing persecution。
and the very real persecution。
that some of our brothers and sisters。
in different places of the world are facing today.。
And the challenge there was when we do face persecution,。
not to shrink back, not to shy away,。
maybe not even to pray for God to help you escape from it,。
but to stay faithful and allow God to work through you,。
even in times of persecution.。
And then we were also told, and similarly, right,。
that sometimes God will indeed call us。
into those really hard places,。
call us to do things that don't make sense。
from the worldly perspective,。
put us in difficult positions。
where we have to respond in faith and in obedience.。
But God works through those things。
and uses us in those ways to show his power。
and his glory and his wisdom.。
Last week, we talked about that.。
God also works through the consistent faithfulness。
of his people.。
And it's not always going to be a big,。
amazing fireworks of display of God's power at work,。
but often it's through the quiet,。
consistent faithfulness of his people.。
Again, just being obedient,。
being doing what God has called them to do,。
welcoming those God has called them to welcome,。
that his love and his power is at work.。
And today, as we close out the series,。
the theme we are talking about,。
the theme we're exploring is evangelism.。
Because yes, as we head into the uncharted,。
we might be doing all those things.。
We don't know where we're going.。
We don't have a plan of action.。
It's gonna be difficult.。
But the one thing we do know is who we're doing it for.。
This isn't a call to adventure。
like we were like Galileo or somewhere like that,。
going off into the uncharted,。
not knowing where we're gonna end up for our own purposes.。
That's not what this is about.。
Going into the uncharted has always been about。
going in the name of Jesus.。
We're not going for the sake of adventure,。
for our own name and our own fame.。
We're going to make known who Jesus is.。
To declare the gospel where it still needs to be heard,。
to teach and to make disciples,。
to testify near and far about who Jesus is.。
This is our mission.。
This has always been the mission of the church,。
of the people of God.。
But why else?。
Two things that Jesus said。
before he ascended into heaven, after his resurrection.。
Two main things he said was this.。
Therefore, go and make disciples of all nations,。
baptizing them in the name of the Father,。
of the Son and the Holy Spirit,。
and teaching them to obey everything I've commanded you.。
And surely I'm with you always to the very end of the age.。
Matthew 28, 19.。
Another version of this in Acts 1, 8 says this,。
but you will receive what?。
Power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you,。
and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem。
and in all Judea and Samaria and to the ends of the earth.。
So the scriptures are clear.。
For those of us who believe in Jesus,。
we have been told, we have been instructed,。
mandated, commanded even, to go and tell。
and teach and preach about Jesus.。
This is what I mean when we say evangelism.。
And this is something that every single Christian。
is called to be a part of.。
Now, but if we're honest,。
evangelism is one of those things。
that is sort of difficult and awkward to do, right?。
Let me tell you about one particular attempt of mine。
to evangelize, and you might be able to relate, all right?。
So I love talking to taxi drivers.。
You might think that's kind of weird, right?。
I love talking to taxi drivers, Uber drivers, whatever it is.。
I just love talking in general, I guess, right?。
But taxi drivers are amazing, right?。
I know in some countries you can call an Uber。
and you can request, right, like, don't chat to me, right?。
You're missing out, okay,。
if you don't talk to your driver, right?。
I think taxi drivers are the quintessential Hong Kong uncles,。
right, especially the ones in their 60s, okay, yeah.。
(audience laughing)。
That is, yeah, okay, right, you know,。
but they're like the quintessential Hong Kong man, okay?。
You get in the taxi, it smells like newspapers。
and cigarettes, right?。
Every single sentence that comes out of their mouth。
has to have a curse word, right?。
It doesn't matter what they're talking about,。
and it's not even swearing to them, right?。
It's just the way they talk, right?。
It's just, you know, the way they express themselves,。
and they'll talk about anything, right?。
They love talking about how, you know,。
(speaking in foreign language)。
you know, all this kind of stuff,。
like, Hong Kong wasn't like it used to be,。
you know, you young people, you're so blessed,。
or you don't know what you're doing,。
all these kind of life advice, you know,。
this is how you raise your children, you know,。
they love to talk about politics,。
and where you sit, and the whole spectrum of politics,。
anything they love to talk about, even religion.。
So for me, sometimes when I get into a taxi,。
I see it as the perfect time to evangelize,。
because you have a captive audience, right?。
Like, you're not going anywhere,。
he's not going anywhere, okay?。
And you have to pay them in the end,。
they're waiting for your money, and so, you know,。
what else are you gonna do with that conversation?。
And so one time I was with, this is quite a few years ago,。
I was with, I used to have lots of missionary friends。
that would come over to Hong Kong and do missionary work,。
so this guy was even more zealous,。
like, so on fire for telling people about Jesus.。
Big, you know, Southern American guy,。
he's probably about like six foot five, you know,。
imagine, I'm not sure if you're gonna get this reference,。
but Stone Cold Steve Austin, okay,。
he's like a big wrestler dude,。
looks like he'd be a biker gang, like, full of tattoos,。
right, in another life he might have been like a gang leader。
or a wrestler or something, not that wrestling's bad, okay,。
but like something like that, like a bad person, okay,。
but this guy loved Jesus,。
and loved telling other people about Jesus.。
And so we got into the taxi, and he was like,。
okay, let's talk to Jesus about this,。
to Jesus about this guy, so okay, yeah, okay, let's do it.。
And so, but he said, okay, translate for me,。
so okay, I'll be a translator,。
and he went with a classic question,。
he said, okay, tell him this,。
if you die today, where do you think you'd end up?。
I was like, oh, that's such a wild place。
to start a conversation, right, like,。
I was like, are you sure, man?。
He said, okay, so I said to the taxi,。
reluctantly a little bit, I said to the taxi driver,。
(speaking in foreign language)。
I just translated for him,。
and so the way his face changed was like,。
like he thought he was about to be robbed,。
'cause he said to me, he's like,。
true story, true story, okay,。
he said to me, (speaking in foreign language)。
He said, don't do anything stupid,。
tell your friend not to do anything stupid,。
I just started, I have no money, okay,。
so I had to explain, no, we're not,。
this isn't what this is about, okay, calm down,。
okay, we're here to give you life, actually, right, so.。
But how about you, okay, in your attempt to evangelize,。
maybe it's something you've tried before,。
maybe it's something you've never tried this before,。
precisely because your fear of getting yourselves。
in those sort of situations where it's awkward,。
it's weird, you might get scared, you might get nervous,。
you're not sure how the other person's gonna respond,。
and we live with this underlying guilt sometimes, right,。
we know this is something we're supposed to do,。
but we don't do it, but evangelism is something。
that we are meant to do, like we're saying,。
but I often feel like we're not doing a good enough job,。
but today, I hope we're gonna be encouraged in this, okay,。
because evangelism is something, like I said,。
for every single person who claims to be a Christian,。
to take part in, to actively do in their lives.。
We're gonna look through the book of Acts。
and see what the passage has to say about evangelism.。
So as the book of Acts begins, right,。
we see that the disciples,。
the world has just been turned upside down, right,。
they've seen their best friend, their mentor,。
their teacher, their savior, dying across,。
and then miraculously, through the power of God,。
he resurrects back to life,。
he spends about 40 days with them,。
walking, teaching, eating, hanging out again,。
before going back into heaven,。
and like I said, before going back into heaven,。
he leaves them with this gigantic task。
of telling the whole world about him,。
and then he just, poof, disappears into the sky,。
right, quite literally.。
Now, at this point, they're probably wondering,。
and understandably, right, a little bit nervous as well,。
like, how on earth are we supposed to do this?。
Or what's the plan, what's the strategy?。
And at this moment, they don't know,。
they don't really have one.。
So they go back to the one thing they do know what to do,。
and that is to gather together and to pray, and to wait,。
just like Emma was encouraging us,。
and Jethro was encouraging us to do just now.。
Acts 1:4 tells us this,。
they all, that is, all the disciples,。
joined together constantly in prayer,。
along with the woman and Mary,。
the mother of Jesus, and with his brothers.。
So everybody who was following Jesus at the time,。
right, were gathered consistently,。
constantly in prayer together.。
And in our journey of evangelism,。
this passage reminded me of this, right,。
it has to start with prayer, right.。
They had no idea what all was about to happen, right.。
They didn't know how to complete this task。
that Jesus had given to them,。
to witness to the ends of the earth.。
But the one thing they did know that they could do,。
whilst figuring all this out, was to pray.。
You know, and often in evangelism,。
we immediately, right, we think of all these plans,。
and tactics, and strategies to win souls for Jesus, right.。
I've seen them all, and maybe you've seen them too,。
the Evangel-Cube, any of you ever had an Evangel-Cube?。
Right, there was this thing where, like,。
you would manipulate, it was like a Rubik's Cube,。
and you keep flipping it, and each picture。
tells a different version of the gospel story.。
Or maybe if you grew up in youth group,。
you made one of those bracelets,。
with like the red, some people are nodding, right,。
the red, the yellow, the black, the green,。
I can't remember the order,。
and each bead tells a different story about the gospel.。
Someone taught me this, it didn't work at all,。
but for many years as a teenager,。
I walked around with a,。
with tied to empty water bottle,。
hanging off the back of my backpack, right.。
And the idea was that people would see,。
that's kind of weird, like, why do you have a water bottle。
hanging off the back of your backpack?。
And then I would evangelize them, right,。
like I'd be like, well you see this bottle's empty, right,。
well let me tell you about living water,。
that could fill this up, you know,。
it's like so cheesy, right, like, it never worked, okay.。
So do these things kind of work, okay,。
I mean, yeah, sometimes, maybe not really,。
and I'm not saying there's no tactics,。
and there's no ways to, you know, learn how to evangelize,。
we'll talk about that a little bit more.。
But the point is this, right,。
before we go to tools and tactics,。
and all this kind of stuff, we need to start with prayer.。
So my first question for us this morning is this,。
are we praying?。
Are we gathering and devoting ourselves to prayer,。
as the disciples were, whilst we wait on God,。
are we actively listening to what He wants to say to us,。
and the best way to do that is through prayer.。
We pray for ourselves, for our courage,。
we pray for opportunities to present the gospel,。
we pray for the wisdom to know what to say。
when the opportunity presents itself.。
This is a reminder for us,。
it's not just evangelism, actually,。
anything we do, but especially with evangelism,。
has to start with prayer.。
And we see what happens,。
it's precisely during one of these prayer times。
that we're gathered together, praying together in one place,。
that suddenly, one of the most spectacular things。
we see in all through scripture happens.。
It tells us this, when the day of Pentecost came,。
they were all together in one place, presumably praying.。
Suddenly, a sound like the blowing of a violent wind。
came from heaven and filled the whole house。
where they were sitting.。
So just imagine the scene, right, you're sitting there,。
you're gathered with your friends, brothers and sisters,。
you're praying, and suddenly this loud swooshing sound。
just moves through the room, unmistakable,。
every body hears it.。
Right, it's like when we've been sat in buildings。
or maybe in your classroom, maybe at home,。
and there's a typhoon eight blowing outside,。
you can hear the wind just blowing through your doors,。
the windows are rattling, the doors are shaking,。
it's unmistakable what's happening.。
There's a huge sound of this wind。
that blows through this room.。
But this wasn't a typhoon, right,。
it wasn't an ordinary wind.。
Did you catch what Luke tells us?。
Okay, check it out, listen to this again.。
This was a wind that came from where?。
A blowing, a violent wind that came from heaven.。
Right, this was God at work.。
Just like when the Israelites were about to cross the Red Sea。
and the Lord drove the sea back to reveal dry land,。
what did he use?。
A strong east wind to guide his people into freedom.。
And what I think God's trying to say here is this,。
that through the wind of the Holy Spirit now,。
I'm gonna drive back your fears,。
I'm gonna drive back your worries,。
I'm gonna open up a new way。
for you to lead people into freedom.。
The Holy Spirit is here and everything is about to change.。
Now, the wind, of course, was just part one。
because watch this, right,。
then pay attention to what God does next.。
And then they saw what seemed to be tongues of fire。
that separated and came to rest on each of them.。
All of them were filled with the Holy Spirit。
and they began to speak in other tongues。
as the Spirit enabled them.。
Now, when we get to passages like this,。
I know, you know, maybe my imagination goes to like,。
what did this actually look like?。
Like tongues of fire?。
Was it like little candle wicks,。
flames like sitting on people's heads, right?。
That's the kind of image I get in my head.。
But again, it's a representation of God's presence.。
Think back in scripture.。
When fire shows up, especially in the Exodus story,。
Moses and the burning bush, right?。
The way that God used fire to guide the Israelites。
by a pillar of fire through the night。
when they were in the wilderness,。
giving them warmth and light。
as they were going through into the promised land.。
When they reached Sinai, it says,。
"God descended on the mountain in a great fire."。
Again, it's a confirmation of God's presence.。
And it sounds weird, it sounds indescribable。
because it precisely is indescribable, right?。
This is human words trying to describe。
a supernatural occurrence.。
But the point is, it's undoubtedly the presence of God。
showing up in a very clear and obvious way, wind and fire.。
If our first step of evangelism is prayer,。
the second step is we have to be empowered。
by the Holy Spirit.。
Wind and fire coming together, sweeping through the place.。
Have you ever been filled with the Holy Spirit?。
If you received Jesus as your Savior,。
you have to be filled with the Spirit,。
to be filled with His presence.。
Have you experienced the presence of God?。
You know it's just resting on you like a consuming fire,。
burning away everything else,。
burning away anything that's not of Him.。
The wind of the Holy Spirit filling you up afresh and anew,。
just like what we're singing about just now.。
We see that when we've been soaked in prayer,。
empowered by the Holy Spirit,。
there's about to be a movement that happens。
that will not be stopped,。
that has not stopped until this very day.。
The powerful forces, untamable forces of wind and fire。
working together, sweeping through the disciples' lives,。
causing them to stop this unstoppable task。
of evangelizing the world in the name of Jesus.。
Look what happens next.。
They were staying there in Jerusalem,。
God-fearing Jews from every nation under,。
now they're staying there in Jerusalem,。
God-fearing Jews from every nation under heaven.。
So this is the people from all over the world。
gathered together at Jerusalem because it was Pentecost,。
the Jewish festival of Pentecost.。
And when they heard this sound,。
the sound that the disciples heard just now,。
a crowd came together in bewilderment。
because each one heard their own language being spoken.。
"Atzalimeh," they asked,。
"Aren't all these who are speaking Galileans?。
Then how is it that each of us hears。
in our own native language?。
Parthians, Medes, Elamites,。
forgive my mispronunciations here,。
Mesopotamia, Judea, Cappadocia, Pontus,。
Asia, Pharisia, Pamphylia, Egypt,。
the parts of Libya, Cyrene, visitors from all over Rome,。
Cretans and Arabs, we hear them declaring," what?。
"The wonders of God in our own tongues."。
So I know sometimes it's a bit of controversy here。
as to what tongues is actually describing, right?。
Is it the ability to suddenly speak different languages。
or was it the charismatic, unintelligible,。
supernatural prayer language of tongues?。
The crowd reaction suggests that they were hearing。
their own languages being spoken, right?。
So this is a supernatural miracle that's happening on.。
People that don't know how to speak a language。
suddenly receive the ability to speak that language.。
But that's not the main point.。
What I wanna focus on is this,。
what the disciples were saying, okay?。
It says they were what?。
Declaring the wonders of God.。
Speaking out the wonders of God,。
telling the things that they have seen God do.。
Now, this is amazing to me, right?。
Think about it.。
The very first thing that happens to prove。
that God's spirit is alive,。
the very first thing that Jesus does through his disciples。
after his life, death and resurrection ascension to heaven,。
was not to perform miracles, right?。
In a very real way, right?。
Was not to go and heal the sick,。
was not going to feed the poor, right?。
It's not that they started a church.。
The very first sign of the disciples。
being filled with the Holy Spirit。
was that they were compelled to declare the wonders of God.。
Or in other words, they began to evangelize.。
They began to spread the gospel.。
Now, do you see how important evangelism is to Jesus' heart?。
And as this happens, right?。
As this amazing thing happens, right?。
There were a few different reactions.。
Some people had the reaction of this, right?。
Amazed and perplexed.。
They asked one another, scripture tells us,。
"What does this mean?"。
In other words, there was a big group of people。
that were curious, right?。
What's going on?。
We heard this sound, this wind,。
and now these people are speaking to us in languages。
that they should not be able to speak.。
They came to find out more.。
And you will find as you go on your journey of evangelizing,。
of telling people about the gospel,。
when the gospel is proclaimed,。
it does often pique curiosity.。
I think back when Jesus was teaching,。
huge crowds would gather, right?。
They would gather to come and listen to his parables,。
to his teaching, and they would be left thinking,。
it's like, "Who is this guy?。
"He teaches with such authority.。
"What do these parables mean?"。
Like, "This person is different, the way he speaks.。
"This message is like nothing I've ever heard.。
"We can't stop listening to it."。
However, at the same time, the scriptures also told us。
that some people made fun of them and said,。
"They've had too much wine."。
Now, I'm not sure if you've ever talked to someone。
who's had too much wine,。
probably not because we're good Christian people here.。
We've never been around people like that,。
but I've heard that when people have too much wine,。
they start talking in ways that don't make sense.。
And this is also gonna happen when you start to evangelize.。
There's gonna be people who laugh at us and sneer at us,。
and some people who will say things like,。
"This doesn't make sense.。
"You sound like a drunk person talking here.。
"This is just the blabbering of a drunken person."。
Maybe you've heard some of this before,。
as you've had some of these responses before.。
You believe in this nonsense?。
You really think a virgin could give birth to a baby?。
That's rubbish.。
You really think someone who was dead can be resurrected?。
You really believe out of all the powers out there。
that there's only one God?。
You really think that sex is something for marriage?。
You know, it's not just for relationships?。
You believe in this Bible that was written 2,000 years ago?。
Doesn't it contradict itself?。
It makes no sense?。
You believe in all that stuff?。
And yes, the accusation will be that the Christian message。
sounds like the ridiculous rants of a drunk.。
The first point of evangelism is we need to start with prayer.。
And the second thing is we need to go with the power。
of the Holy Spirit.。
The third thing that we've been saying。
is that we need to expect opposition.。
But look at how it happens.。
What will our reaction be is the question.。
'Cause when Peter faces all these accusations, right,。
now, he could have done a few things.。
He could have toned it down to, "Actually, you know what?。
"Yeah, it's a bit much.。
"Okay, come on, guys.。
"Let's come and gather back.。
"Let's keep praying, and let's not cause too much trouble."。
And maybe that's what we wanna do as well.。
"Okay, yeah, I'll just shut up about it,。
"and I'm not gonna talk about it anymore."。
Or maybe we change the message to make it a bit more。
acceptable, a bit more palatable to the people。
that we're talking to.。
But that's not the kind of people we wanna be, right?。
That waters down the truth?。
That's not the type of church we've called to be, right?。
Do we really wanna be the kind of Christians。
that just fold under a little bit of ridicule,。
who are afraid to speak the whole truth?。
No, church.。
We wanna be the kind of followers of Jesus。
who are bold in the faith,。
willing to stand up to persecution and ridicule,。
as we were saying about in this past journey.。
And this is what we see in Peter, right?。
Peter isn't scared.。
He isn't intimidated.。
But he stands up and raises his voice, it says,。
and begins to preach the gospel, right?。
He begins to explain who Jesus was.。
What's happening actually does make sense.。
This is what's happening.。
And he begins to talk about Jesus,。
that he was the one that was sent from God。
through his signs and miracles that Jesus performed。
that proved this, that he was put to death on the cross.。
But then listen, let's go back to scripture.。
But God raised him from the dead,。
freeing him from the agony of death,。
because it was impossible for death to keep a hold on him.。
And now God has raised this Jesus to life,。
and we were all witnesses of it.。
Exalted to the right hand of God,。
he has received from the Father the promise, Holy Spirit,。
and has poured out what you now see and hear,。
that Jesus is both Lord and Messiah over all people,。
and everyone who calls on the name of the Lord。
will be saved.。
He doesn't hold back.。
He boldly declares what is happening,。
who Jesus is, what he was, that he came to this earth to do,。
and you, Christian, have been called to do the same.。
If you're sitting here right now, listening to this story,。
if you call yourself a follower of Jesus,。
the gospel is something that you've already received,。
you've already experienced.。
You know this story because you're living in it right now.。
But since we're talking about it, the gospel,。
just in case there's someone here right now listening。
who hasn't heard the gospel, maybe you're listening online,。
maybe a friend brought you to church today,。
and maybe for all the rest of us, it's just a reminder,。
what is this story?。
What is this amazing thing that we're talking about?。
Well, the gospel starts with recognizing。
that there is one God.。
This is the God who created the heavens and the earth,。
who sung every star and planet in the sky,。
yet he knows you by name.。
Because he created you.。
He created us, human beings, in love, in his image.。
And the Bible tells us he breathed his life into our lungs.。
And when he created this earth, everything was perfect,。
because our God is perfect.。
But we messed it up.。
We rebelled against God, we sinned against him,。
and into his perfect creation, we brought sin.。
And sin is this horrible mess。
that just keeps getting worse, right?。
The more we try to clean it up ourselves,。
the more we try to fix it, the worse it becomes.。
And sin is what binds us in darkness.。
Sin is what makes us commit and think evil thoughts.。
Sin is what brings death.。
Sin is what has now separated us。
from this God who created us.。
But yet he loved us.。
And he loved us so much,。
he refused to let us sit in sin and darkness.。
And so he begins this rescue plan to try to save us.。
And in this rescue plan, he sends his beloved son, Jesus.。
And Jesus comes down to earth to live amongst us.。
And Jesus is God, we know this,。
because whilst he was on this earth, as Peter was saying,。
he proved it time and time again。
in the way he taught with authority,。
in the way he loved people,。
in the signs and wonders that he performed.。
He proved it in fulfilling the many prophecies。
that the Old Testament proclaimed.。
And ultimately, he proved it to us。
by dying on the cross for our sins, paying that price.。
Not because we did anything to earn it,。
not because we did enough good things。
to capture his attention,。
not because we fixed ourselves up first.。
This was not our idea or our doing.。
This is because of the love that he had for us.。
But even death could not hold Jesus down.。
And after three days in the tomb,。
God raised Jesus back to life,。
defeating the powers of sin and darkness once and for all,。
establishing his rightful place as king。
over the entire universe, reconciling us with God,。
confirming that Jesus is indeed the Messiah and Savior。
the world is longing for.。
And to this day, if you call on the name of Jesus。
and Jesus alone, if you accept him as your Savior,。
you too will be saved.。
Right, this is the greatest story in history,。
the greatest story that's ever been told.。
This is what the meaning of what gospel is, right?。
This is why it's called the good news.。
And like I said, if you and I listening to this right now,。
for those of us who've already lived it,。
you accept this, you believe this, right?。
You felt the love of God.。
You felt the Holy Spirit working inside of you.。
You are aware of how he saved you from your sin.。
You're living in this new life now,。
reconciled with God, being able to gather。
with brothers and sisters like this, right?。
Would you disagree with me that this is the best news。
that you've ever heard, that you've ever received,。
the best thing ever?。
Nobody disagrees with you in that, right?。
Then brothers and sisters, if this is the case,。
why are we not telling everybody about this?。
Why are we not sharing it?。
I mean, it's not like, and I'm talking to myself here too,。
okay, it's not like we don't like to share news, right?。
Anything, social media proves to us,。
we love to share about things that happen to us, right?。
Coldplay, woohoo, yeah, she said yes, yeah.。
New cookies in Wan Chai, okay?。
All these things we love to share about, right?。
We will share about everything else.。
So why is it then when it comes to sharing the gospel,。
which we've already agreed is the greatest story。
that's ever told, but it's also a story。
that's hardly ever told?。
Again, in my own reflection and in my own heart,。
there's a few reasons why I sometimes think we are reluctant。
and we keep quiet about the gospel.。
First thing is this, fear.。
Maybe this is the biggest one, right?。
Questions such as, like I said just now,。
what are people gonna think about me?。
What if they mock me?。
I'm too religious, right?。
You're a goody two shoes, right?。
What if, you know, I know my boss is sort of hostile。
towards Christianity, if I speak this out,。
I might not get the opportunities。
that my other colleagues might get.。
But what if they discriminate against me?。
What if I start facing persecution?。
Or maybe what if they start asking me questions。
and I don't know what I'm talking about。
and I look like a fool, right?。
Fear holds us, or these things, holds us back so often。
when it comes to sharing the gospel.。
Or maybe sometimes it's, you know,。
your own laziness, apathy, excuses, right?。
And the truth is this, right?。
Again, I'm talking to myself here as well,。
so please don't, we're in this together, okay?。
Sometimes I feel like we don't care enough.。
And we give ourselves excuses like,。
oh, I'm not that good with words.。
You know, it's not my gifting.。
If I don't say it, someone else will share with them.。
I don't have the time to do that right now.。
You know, all these things,。
I'm just gonna wait for a better opportunity.。
And we get lazy and we prioritize other things。
over sharing the gospel.。
And perhaps sometimes it's forgetfulness.。
And we forget that we too were once in that place。
when we were without hope,。
where we were sitting in our sin。
wondering what to do with ourselves.。
And we forget that if it wasn't for someone else。
who come and spoke and preached。
and taught us about the gospel,。
no matter who it could have been,。
you know, it could have been a grandmother,。
a parent, a teacher, a friend, whoever it was,。
that we would have never heard the gospel。
in the first place,。
and maybe we wouldn't be living the lives in Jesus,。
experiencing the love that we do in this moment.。
And our minds aren't tuned to those。
who are still lost in the darkness.。
We forget about that.。
And if we're honest with ourselves,。
it's probably a mixture of all these three things。
coming together.。
But what I'm challenging us today, church, is this, right?。
It's not good enough.。
And if we've been called to go into the uncharted。
like we have at the beginning of this journey,。
we have been commissioned and commanded。
into these unknown places, like I said,。
to proclaim the gospel and the name of Jesus.。
And Paul would say it this way, right?。
How can they call on the name of one。
they have not believed in?。
And how can they believe in one who they have not heard?。
And how can they hear without someone preaching to them?。
And how can anyone preach to them unless they are sent?。
Church, what I'm saying is this, we have all been sent.。
And whilst we're sitting here in this room,。
while people out there are living and dying。
without hearing and believing in Jesus,。
because we haven't done the work of evangelism。
and telling people about the gospel.。
Our sermon series might come to an end today,。
but the call remains on us, right?。
This is not a time to rest.。
This is not a time to hold back.。
This is a season that we've been talking about of action.。
It's not a time to tone down.。
God's desire is that the gospel, right, of his kingdom。
will be preached through the whole world.。
So we cannot stop talking about this。
until every single person has heard about Jesus.。
And it's not something we can be slow and lazy about,。
because a life without the gospel leads us to some very dark,。
leads us to a very dark place。
with some very serious consequences.。
One of the consequences is this,。
eternal separation from God.。
The consequence of not hearing and responding to the gospel。
is that when we die, we end up separated from God forever.。
Again, we're just talking about real things here, okay?。
But our time on earth is gonna end in one of two ways, right?。
Either your body stops working, which means you die,。
or Jesus is gonna come back.。
Either way, we have very little control。
over those two occurrences.。
I mean, all of us in this room,。
and I pray that we do wanna live lives,。
good, healthy lives until we're gold and gray, right,。
and die peacefully in our sleep.。
But nobody is guaranteed that.。
And with my own eyes and my own life,。
and I'm sure you've experienced it too, right,。
life often, we call it cut short in some way.。
Sickness, disease, accidents,。
sometimes for reasons when we don't even understand,。
life is out of our control.。
In the same way, Bible tells us no one knows。
the day or the hour when Jesus will return.。
We do know he is coming back though,。
and when he does come back again for the second time。
to save those who are eagerly awaiting him,。
and we know that when he comes back,。
he's gonna be coming back as a king。
to judge the living and the dead.。
And we know when he comes back or when we die,。
he's gonna separate those who have accepted and lived。
and praised and been walking in the gospel。
from those who have not.。
And those who have lived in the gospel,。
who have accepted Jesus as a savior,。
will go off and live with him eternal life with God,。
and for the others, it's eternal separation from God。
in darkness, in punishment.。
So that's a real consequence of responding to the gospel.。
But the second thing is this,。
I think this might be even more pressing。
and more important right now,。
because often we focus on that,。
we focus on the afterlife。
when we go to the evangelism,。
like when I said, if you die today, where are you gonna go?。
But that's not the whole picture either.。
Because if it was, then accepting the gospel。
is sort of like the super life insurance that you could get.。
So the moment you die, you get to go to heaven.。
Okay, well then, again, let's just keep it real.。
If that's the case, then why not just die。
right after you receive the gospel?。
Then you get to go with me heaven straight away。
and everything will be fine.。
But when we live without the gospel,。
it's not just about the afterlife,。
but it's about life here right now.。
Right, this is the beautiful thing about the gospel.。
It's not just about going to heaven。
and being with God forever, right?。
Like I said, it's not an afterlife insurance policy.。
But Jesus says this,。
"I have come to give you life and life in the full."。
The gospel allows us to live our lives on this earth,。
however long or short that might be,。
with meaning and purpose and identity and mission。
that God intended us to have.。
So the gospel embodies every single part of our lives.。
The gospel is why we can have hope。
when things seem hopeless.。
The gospel is what drives us to speak up and fight back。
against the injustices we see in this world.。
The gospel is what compels us to love everybody。
that we see with the love of God,。
even our enemies.。
The gospel allows us to celebrate the joys of this life,。
but also walk with those who are going through the valley。
of the shadow of death.。
The gospel is because,。
this is the reason why we can come together。
in a room like this,。
people from all over the world,。
from all different backgrounds,。
together as a family worshiping Jesus.。
That is because of the gospel.。
This is why we cannot stay silent.。
Peter urges the people, "Save yourselves."。
He says, "From this corrupt generation."。
And this is what we still face to this day,。
a world that is corrupt, a world that is broken,。
a world with people living in darkness and without hope。
in this world or the next.。
But the gospel church, this is the key.。
This is why I keep saying we cannot be silent.。
We cannot shut up.。
We cannot give up.。
We cannot stop.。
We need to preach the gospel。
because just two minutes, a five minute walk from here,。
under the bridge, there's people putting their hopes。
in the lady, slapping against a piece of paper.。
They're putting their hopes in that,。
engaging themselves in demonic forces.。
That's where they're finding their hope,。
trying to beat your troubles away.。
People need to see that that is not real hope.。
True hope is found in Jesus and Jesus alone.。
We need to preach the gospel because there are kids。
and teenagers and young people struggling right now。
in Hong Kong and all over the world。
to find meaning and purpose in life.。
And some have even turned to taking their own lives。
as a result.。
You know, our teen suicide rates in Hong Kong。
are some of the highest amongst developed nations.。
They need the gospel to know that no matter what happens,。
doesn't matter how good your grades are,。
doesn't matter what your teachers。
and your exam results tell you, right?。
That does not define you, but you have a father in heaven。
who loves you and values you exactly for who you are,。
not what you are doing.。
We need to preach the gospel because they're a couple。
struggling in their marriages, ready to give up,。
not seeing a hope in the future together.。
And the gospel is what teaches them about love。
and reconciliation and being the church to each other.。
We need to preach the gospel because some have sold。
themselves to the ways of the world,。
chasing money, status, fame, prestige, and all these things。
and reaching the mountaintops where they've literally。
acquired every single earthly thing that they want,。
still finding their lives empty,。
not knowing that the only thing that will ever satisfy them。
is Jesus.。
We need to preach the gospel because they're people。
and families just facing the everyday realities。
of what life is.。
The family that's facing financial issues,。
the child that just gets diagnosed with cancer,。
the father who's just lost his job and is told, you know,。
there's no future for you in this company.。
Whatever it is, we go through the everyday harsh realities。
of life, not knowing that there's a God out there。
who can help them, who can lead them, who can guide them,。
who can heal, who can provide, who can save.。
For these reasons as More Church, we need to speak。
the gospel.。
You and me, my family and Christ have been called。
to do this.。
And as we do this, remember, there is great power.。
You know, it's not, your job is just to speak it out, okay,。
to have the courage to do that.。
But it's not up to your own power.。
But when the gospel does work, it does amazing things,。
things we would never even imagine, right?。
Check out what it says.。
I'm continuing the passage in Acts.。
When the people heard this message,。
after they heard Peter speak, it told us they were cut。
to the heart.。
In other words, they had to make a decision.。
They even asked themselves the questions,。
brothers, what shall we do?。
We've heard this message.。
I've realized that now I also need this, right?。
This is God's work.。
This is God's, the power of God's word at work, right?。
Not your own power, but the gospel itself carries。
the message of Jesus.。
So all you have to do is speak it out and wait。
for the Lord to move.。
It's not about how convincing you are, but it's about。
how obedient you are in allowing God to speak through you.。
And it tells us that 3000 people, amazing, were added。
to the number that day.。
Again, it's not about the numbers.。
It's about us being ready to respond, being ready to go。
and speak the gospel to those who need it.。
So like I said in the beginning, this might be uncharted。
and maybe now, you know, as we started, maybe you're。
feeling a bit guilty, maybe you're feeling worse now, okay?。
And that's not the point, okay?。
The challenge is not to leave you feeling nervous。
and guilty because you've never done this before.。
It sounds so serious now, and I'm even more scared, okay?。
I want us to be encouraging each other to do this together.。
All right, let's not let us get away with letting。
nervousness and fear stop us from what we're doing.。
So I'm gonna give you a few simple things。
that we can start with.。
Okay, these are things I truly believe, honestly,。
everybody can do, okay?。
All of us can do.。
First thing is this, okay?。
And again, I'm just gonna say it bluntly, right?。
Don't be a jerk, okay?。
Like, be a nice person.。
Be the kind of person that other people want。
to have conversations with, right?。
You can't be rude and mean in one minute。
and then suddenly say, oh, let me tell you about Jesus,。
right, no one's gonna want to listen to that, okay?。
So just be kind, be nice, be loving, okay?。
Be a bit patient.。
I know we Hong Kongers are often very impatient。
and rushing to place in there all the time.。
Slow down, be kind, be loving, okay?。
Second thing is this, right?。
Use your testimony, right?。
If you can't remember all the details of the Bible story,。
maybe one thing you can do is study up on that,。
read up on that, get yourself familiar with that.。
But even without that, right, your testimony。
is the gospel at work in your life, right?。
So it is, in a way, preaching the gospel, right?。
And you're never gonna be confused about your own story。
because it's what happened to you, right?。
Like I said, we all have been through the experience。
of receiving the love of Jesus, right, changing our lives.。
Just start with that, you know, invite that friend,。
invite that person out for coffee and say, you know what?。
I'm gonna tell you a little bit more about myself, right?。
Let me tell you about my journey in Christianity, right?。
This is what I was before, this is where I am now, right?。
It's such a beautiful way to introduce Jesus to someone.。
And third thing, like we said at the beginning,。
is to pray, right?。
Let's be praying for this church.。
Let's be praying for each other,。
let's be praying for other brothers and sisters。
all over the world who are walking down,。
who are walking down this road and speak。
and being encouraged to speak the gospel out.。
Let's be in prayer for opportunities,。
let's be in prayer for those。
who haven't heard the gospel yet.。
And together, as a body of Christ,。
we say we will not give up until all have heard。
and received the love and the gospel of Jesus.。
Would you pray with me?。
No, we were talking just now and I made an assumption。
that it's, you know, that everyone here has heard。
that message and,。
but I wanna give an opportunity right now。
to perhaps this is the first time you've ever heard that,。
that gospel story, the fact that there is a savior。
and a Messiah that loves you and wants to save you。
from your sin and give you hope and life。
and life to the full.。
And maybe today is the first time。
you've ever responded to that,。
or want to respond to that.。
And so with an opportunity like this,。
I don't want it to go to waste and。
I just wanna invite anyone who's there right now,。
if that is you, two invitations for you.。
Right now, maybe if you just,。
you can just sit there and talk to God and just tell Him,。
I want you, Jesus.。
And it just starts with a very, very simple conversation。
with God, you talk to Him just like you would anyone else.。
You can do that quietly and He hears you,。
He knows, He sees everything.。
But if you're willing, if you are, and if that's you,。
I would also invite you to perhaps get up off your seat。
and come forward right now。
so that the church can pray for you.。
Together we can celebrate this wonderful,。
life-changing moment, eternity-changing moment right now.。
I'm just gonna throw the invitation out there.。
It doesn't matter if nobody comes forward,。
if you're in the upper house listening,。
you can come downstairs and come forward.。
I'm just gonna give us a couple of seconds。
to respond to that.。
So if that is you, either just respond where you are,。
that's okay, but the courageous thing to do,。
and we would love to be able to celebrate with you。
if you would come forward so we can pray for you。
and celebrate this together.。
Is anybody out there right now with that?。
Or maybe online, you can just let us know as well.。
(gentle music)。
All right, that's okay.。
For the rest of us, we know what we need to do.。
We've always known, today's probably just a reminder。
of the mission, the calling that God has given,。
the task that he's given to all of us.。
And so Jesus, we pray that you would just fill us up。
with the Holy Spirit, with courage.。
Bring us to the people that need to hear your gospel.。
And just through one conversation at a time, Lord,。
we bring your kingdom here on this earth.。
We show people that there is a God who loves them。
and offers them everything that they've ever wanted,。
everything that they needed can be found。
when we find Jesus, true meaning and purpose in life.。
And everything else fades away。
when we have you in the center.。
So Lord, help us to carry and live。
and preach this gospel with us wherever we go,。
from here to the ends of the earth.。
Strengthen us and send us, we pray in Jesus' name, amen.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
