Today we continue our sermon series on a remedy for relationships and we have Pastor Tim.。
Communal relationships. The last three and a half years, they've been exhausting.。
First we had social unrest, we had the protests in 2019, and then in 2020, Covid-19, the pandemic hit.。
So I don't know about you, but this season just has been tiring and has been wearing us out to。
one degree or another. So it's no surprise that this has impacted us in many different ways.。
So in some ways that this has impacted us relationally, socially, economically,。
emotionally, but also spiritually. Our relationship with Jesus。
has suffered during this time for many of us.。
There's many different reasons for that and I'm just going to name a few. It might not be your。
reason, but I believe there's ways that everyone has been impacted by what's been happening.。
So perhaps during this time you got stuck in addictive behavior.。
Maybe it's an old addiction, maybe it was something new.。
Maybe the worries that all this, what's happening around us, the social isolation, all that brought。
just was so overwhelming and absorbed all our time and all our energy. That was just crushing us。
and it's this heavy burden that's been like just laying on our shoulder.。
Then for others, perhaps you've been upset with God, the church, even church leadership,。
or maybe we're just tired and we're drained and there's just a level of exhaustion that。
just doesn't seem to go away. It's been running on empty for quite a while.。
So I don't know exactly what's been happening in your life, but to one degree or another,。
we all have been impacted and our relationship with Jesus has impacted.。
So today, we want to hear how God wants to speak to us about that, speak into our lives about this。
tiredness, this exhaustion. And so we're going to explore two questions together. The first one is,。
how does Jesus invite us to receive the grace and the life that he has to offer that restores,。
renews, and truly satisfies? So that's the first question. And then the second one that we're。
going to look at is, what are some of the ways of relating to Jesus that have kept us from。
experiencing all the fullness that he has to offer to us? So we are in the Remedy of Relationships。
series, and today our topic is communal relationships. We're going to look at the。
count of Jesus in the Gospel of John. And before we read the passage together, I just want to set。
the context for us. So Jesus is by the Lake of Galilee, and he's in the middle of nowhere,。
but people have been following. So there's 5,000 plus people with him, and he does an incredible。
miracle. People are hungry, they need food, and so he multiplies bread and fish so that everyone。
has enough to eat. I mean, it's amazing. But then Jesus discerns that the crowd, they want to make。
him king, and they have an agenda for him, but that's not the type of king that Jesus has come。
to be. And so he decides to withdraw, and he goes to the mountainside. And in the meantime,。
the disciples, they take the only boat, and they start heading back to Capernaum,。
on the other side of the lake. And I'm like, "Why are the disciples taking off without Jesus?。
What kind of friends are that? Just leaving him behind, right?" So then in the middle of the night,。
Jesus, he also starts heading back, and another miracle occurs. He walks on water,。
and he meets some of the disciples, and they go to Capernaum. So that's where we are picking up。
the story. The crowd wakes up from their camping trip in the wilderness, and they're looking for。
Jesus. Where did he go? And they take some boats, and also head to Capernaum, and that's where we。
enter. It's John 6, verse 25 to 35. So it says, "When they found him on the other side of the lake,。
they asked him, 'Rabbi, when did you get here?' Jesus answered, 'Very truly I tell you,。
you are looking for me, not because you saw the signs I performed, but because you ate the loaves。
and you had your fill. Do not work for food that spoils, but for food that endures to eternal life,。
which the Son of Man will give you. For in him God the Father has placed his seal of approval.'。
Then they asked him, 'What must we do to do the works God requires?'。
Jesus answered, 'The work of God is this, to believe in the one he has sent.' So then they。
ask him, 'What sign will he give us that we may see it and believe you? What will you do?'"。
Just think of this right now for a moment. He just did this incredible miracle,。
and right now they're asking Jesus again for a sign. Crazy, right? Continuing,。
"Our ancestors ate the manna in the wilderness. As it is written, 'He gave them bread from heaven to。
eat.' So Jesus said to them, 'Very truly I tell you, it is not Moses who gave you that bread from。
heaven, but it is my Father who gives you the true bread from heaven. For the bread of God is the。
bread that comes down from heaven and gives life to the world.' 'Sir,' they said, 'always give us。
this bread.' Then Jesus declared, 'I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me will never go hungry,。
and whoever believes in me will never be thirsty.'"。
So here we have a part of a dialogue between the crowd and Jesus.。
And there are some postures and some attitudes in the crowd that I want us to take a look at,。
because these postures and attitudes, they actually undermine what Jesus wants to do。
in the people's lives. And it's keeping them from fully experiencing and fully receiving。
what Jesus has to offer to them. And I believe that we hold those same postures,。
and they also stand in the way of what Jesus wants to do in our lives.。
So let's look. There's three things we're going to look at. Let's look at the first one.。
So when they find Jesus in Capernaum, they ask him, "When did you get here?"。
And asking this question, "When," is rather trivial. Basically, it's small talk.。
And Jesus, it's interesting how he responds. He doesn't say when he got there, how he got there.。
He's not like, "Oh yeah, so I was on the mountain, and then about 3 a.m. at night, I decided to walk。
on water, and then at 3.45, you know, I arrived." So he doesn't do that. But what he does is he cuts。
right through the chase, and he gets right to what's going on. He speaks truth, and he says this.。
He says, "Very truly, I tell you, you're looking for me, not because you saw the sign I performed,。
but because you ate the loaves and you had your fill."。
Now, Jesus, he loves us, and he doesn't shy away from confronting us, but also speaking truth to us.。
Because he wants for us to fully receive what he has to offer. He doesn't want the crowd to。
miss that. But he doesn't shy away from calling things out. Whenever we come before Jesus,。
he knows everything about our lives anyhow. And he already has decided that he loves us,。
and his grace and forgiveness, he wants to extend that to us.。
But the crowd, he's discerning that they're coming to him with wrong motives.。
And they don't come to him because they saw him perform the sign that pointed to that he is the。
son of God, that he's the Redeemer, he's the way that Messiah. That's not why they come to him.。
They come because their stomachs were filled. They got food. And so they focus on the sign,。
the bread, instead of what that bread and that multiplication of the bread, what that points to,。
the significance of it, and the thing that Jesus wants them to see.。
And they approach Jesus with their own agenda. They want Jesus to make more food for them.。
Now, today when you ask somebody, or if you ask, actually let's do it this way, if you ask somebody。
back then, "Why do you work?" They would say, "We work just to put food on our table and to survive."。
You know, that's really the reason why you work. And scholars, they estimate that about 80% of。
people's income back then went just to providing for food. Now, for some of us, that might still。
be true today, but for a lot of us, we don't use as much of our money for providing food.。
And so this food was very significant to the people. It was a matter of life and death.。
And so they're focused on the food, and they want Jesus to make more food. They want to fit。
Jesus into their agenda, into their business. They're like, "Hey, Jesus, let's make more food.。
You make more food, and then we can start this fishing business. We can buy a boat,。
you know, the thing that we always dreamed of. We can buy that field." I'm just trying to imagine。
what people dream of, you know, back then. Fishing boats, fields, chickens.。
But we still do the same thing today. We also approach Jesus with the wrong motives,。
and we try to fit him into our agenda, that Jesus helps us, you know, succeed in business,。
that Jesus helps us or does this relationship thing for us. And it's okay to bring those。
things to Jesus. Actually, we can come with those things to him, and he loves when we pray and bring。
those up. He loves to bless his people. He loves to give good gifts to his children. He loves that.。
But when we only come for him to accomplish our agenda, and we don't care about the relationship.。
We're just, we miss Jesus who's standing right in front of us.。
We miss what he wants to give us, because we're just so focused on our agenda.。
So, when we only approach Jesus with the purpose of having him help us achieve our goals and。
accomplish our own ends, we miss out on what he truly has to offer us, which is a life-transforming。
relationship. Now, I don't know if you have experienced that when you're interacting with。
somebody, that they just talk to you because they're trying to get you to accomplish their agenda. And。
they're super focused on that. I've had this experience to the point where I'm like, even like,。
"Hey, I'm here." Like, but I felt like not even acknowledged as a person. So, Jesus is saying,。
"I'm right here to the crowd. Don't miss out on me, what I have to offer to you."。
So, we try to fit Jesus in our agenda, and we miss out on the relationship, the grace, and the life。
that he has to offer to us, that he wants to give us and pour out over our lives, and let this good,。
beautiful work unfold in us. So, what are some ways that you're trying to fit Jesus into your agenda?。
Well, let's look at how the conversation can take place.。
Well, let's look at how the conversation continues. So, Jesus continues to respond. He says,。
"Do not work for food that spoils, but for food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of。
Man will give you. For in him, God the Father has placed the seal of approval." So, besides exposing。
their wrong motives and agendas when they come to Jesus, now he encourages them to stop striving。
and working for food that does not truly, fully fulfill.。
And he asks them to focus on food that endures to eternal life. So, what Jesus is saying to。
the crowd is, "Stop chasing after things that don't fully satisfy you. You're chasing after。
the wrong things." And so, we long for this deeper quality of life. We have these deep longings of。
significance. We want to be significant. We want to be worthy. We want to be lovable, loved.。
And we try to find those things in material things and other things, and we chase after them.。
And we say to ourselves, "I know what will make me happy. If only I could have this flat, this job,。
this education, then I will truly be happy. Then I will truly be whole."。
And so, then we start chasing after those things.。
Now, I remember when I was a teenager in the 90s, so it's been a while,。
the big popular thing at that time were Levi 501 jeans. Come on now. I heard, somebody told me that。
they're popular again. Is that true? Yeah? Kind of? Yeah? And so, for me, I thought, "If I get those。
jeans, I'm going to be cool. And the girl I have is going to have a crush on, she's going to like me."。
And so, I went to my parents, and I also told them what the, how much the jeans cost, which at that。
time was 200 marks, 100 US dollars, which now is like 200 or something like that. And they're like,。
"No." So, my dreams were crushed. But then we went to the US, and in the US, that pair cost $32 or。
something like that. And I was like, "Yes!" And so, I got a pair or two. And when I came back,。
did they really deliver on being cool? Not really. Did they really help with the crush?。
So, I wrote her a little love note, put it in her pencil case, that was like the thing back then.。
And then she thought that somebody was trying to mess with me and had sort of written a fake note.。
Ouch. So, it didn't work with either. But I know this is kind of a silly story, but the reason why。
I'm telling this story is because I had this object, these jeans, and they stirred within me。
a desire that I thought, "If only I had this, then I will be cool. Then I will be loved."。
We do the same thing with objects and with relationships. They stir within us a desire。
and a longing. They touch on something very deep inside of us. We say, "If only I have this,。
then I will be okay. Then I will be whole. Then I will be content. Then I will be truly happy."。
And so, we make things that are good things in themselves, we make them ultimate things.。
We turn them into idols that we believe will fulfill our deepest longings, and we chase after。
them. Now, Tim Keller, a well-known New York City pastor, he defines idols as follows. He puts it,。
"An idol is anything more important to you than God, anything that absorbs your heart and。
imagination more than God, anything you seek to give you what only God can give."。
Now, those jeans, they stirred in my heart and my imagination. It really was a focus for me,。
and we have other things in our lives that do the same thing for us. And we think that this。
job or this degree or this relationship will bring this deep satisfaction.。
And a lot of times, they do bring pleasure. They're not bad things in themselves,。
but they never fully deliver what we hope for and what we expect. And what we do then is like,。
"Well, you know, oh yeah, that's okay." And then we set our heart on something else,。
we chase after that, and we think that that will give us this true contentment, this true happiness.。
But it fails to deliver. And so Jesus is saying to the crowd, "Do not work for food that spoils,。
but for food that endures eternal life, which the Son of Man will give you.。
Come and receive from me the life that I have to offer to you. Let me fill you,。
because I do deliver. I do satisfy. I do meet those deep longings that nothing else can fill."。
So Jesus challenges us to stop investing all our time and energy into trying to find fulfillment。
in material things, and instead invest ourselves in Him as our source of true and lasting satisfaction.。
So what's been taking up your imagination? What's been stirring in your heart? And what have you。
been chasing after? So the third thing in that dialogue between a crowd I want to highlight is,。
so Jesus, He challenged the crowd to work for food that endures. And so the crowd,。
they pick up on the word "work." "Work? I like to work." And they asked Him, "What。
must we do to do the works God requires?" They're asking Jesus to give them a to-do list。
so they can receive His favor, receive His blessing, that they can be acceptable.。
Because they want to know what they need to do. And basically the idea with which。
they're relating to Jesus is that God's goodness, love, and generosity towards them, towards us,。
depends on our efforts. Like if I'm a good person, if I'm a good Christian, if I pray more and stop。
doing the bad thing that I'm doing, then Jesus will love me, then I will be okay, then He will。
bless my plans that I have. And we do that. And it's not surprising because that's actually how。
a lot of our life works. You know, when we were children, if we were a bad boy or a bad girl,。
then we didn't get the reward, but if we were good, we got the cookie.。
And it also works in a lot of relationships for us that way, that we have to earn favor or work。
on, you know, recovering the favor that we maybe had and earn that love back. And so it's no。
surprise that we apply the same thing to God. Maybe try to earn God's favor, we try to earn。
God's blessing, we try to earn God's love, but that's not how it works. Because Jesus, He loves。
us. So Jesus, He responds to that, that way of approaching Him through works and through our。
efforts. In verse 29, He says this, "The work of God is this, to believe in the one He has sent."。
And it's interesting because before the crowd asked Him, "What works must we do?" So they're。
focusing on themselves and the works that they need to do. But now here, it's talking about。
the work of God, so the work that God already has done. And all they need to do is to believe。
in the one He has sent, which is Jesus talking to them.。
Because the only way of receiving and experiencing God's love is。
if we place our trust in Him. We can't earn it. It's a grace gift,。
this unmerited God's goodness that He just wants to pour on us and give us.。
But a lot of times, we work really hard to earn God's love.。
We try to redeem ourselves instead of letting Jesus redeem us. We put faith in our own works。
instead of putting faith in what God has already done.。
And a lot of times, we like it that way because then we can feel like God owes us something or。
we can demand something from God. But God, just in His love and goodness, He just wants to pour。
His forgiveness, His life. He wants to renew us. He just wants to pour that into our lives.。
But we can only receive it as a gift when we come to Him and just receive what He has to offer to us.。
So let's briefly review these three ways of how the crowd related to Jesus and how we a lot of。
times relate to Jesus. First, there was trying to put Jesus, fitting Jesus into our agenda,。
where we just try to have Jesus accomplish what we're trying to do. We don't really care about。
how He wants to relate to us or who He is. We just want Him to do for us what we want done.。
So that's the first thing. Then, there is the part where we focus on material things。
and we think that they're going to fully satisfy us. We even forget about Jesus. We get distracted.。
And we think that these things will make us happy. And so we chase after them. We give。
it our energy. We give it our life. But it always comes up short. Yes, there is some pleasure,。
but it always comes up short. It never fully delivers.。
And then, we try to earn favor. We try to earn God's love. And we strive so hard. And it's so。
exhausting and depressing because it's never enough. But again, that's not how it works.。
Because Jesus just freely wants to pour the Spirit on us and give us this life that He has for us.。
So now, we see in all these ways that we come and we approach Jesus or have or that has crept back。
into our lives. But let's turn to the question we originally asked, which was, "How does Jesus。
invite us to receive the grace and life that He has to offer that restores, that renews,。
and that truly satisfies?" How do we receive that? How do we receive that today?。
Because a lot of us are exhausted and tired. And there's brokenness in our lives.。
Maybe we barely made it to church today. Maybe we're just watching online. We've barely turned。
on the service because we're so ashamed about what's been happening in our lives.。
And we feel so distanced from God. But if you notice throughout the dialogue, Jesus keeps。
leaning in. He doesn't give up on us. He didn't give up on the crowd. He keeps wanting to draw。
them in and wanting them to fully see Him, who He is and what He has to offer. And He wants to do。
the same here today with us. He wants you to fully see Him and to receive what He has to offer to you.。
His love, His grace, His goodness, His kindness. He just wants to pour it on you.。
We're exhausted. He wants to renew you.。
Where there's an addiction, He wants to break the power of addiction in your life.。
That's what Jesus does. So the dialogue continues with the crowd.。
And then we come to this ultimate declaration that Jesus makes in verse 35. He says,。
"I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me will never go hungry, and whoever believes in me。
will never be thirsty. I am the source that fully satisfies in a way that nothing else can satisfy."。
That's what Jesus is saying. If you notice, He used the phrase "I am."。
In the book of Exodus, God uses that phrase to reveal who He is, His name to Moses.。
And so this is a revelation moment where Jesus is revealing who He is to the crowd。
so that they may fully see Him, that they know that life and satisfaction are found in Him.。
And in the Gospel of John, there's seven "I am" statements where every time Jesus reveals。
a little bit more about who He is and who He wants us to know who He is.。
And He does the same today. He reveals Himself to us. He makes Himself known to every person.。
Because He wants you to see, He wants us to see who He is,。
and how He loves us, how He meets us,。
even when our lives are a mess, when they're broken, when they're in shambles, when they're ugly.。
So the remedy for brokenness, for our brokenness,。
tiredness, and emptiness is found when we come to Jesus.。
When we commune with Him, He invites us into a relationship.。
And when we receive His grace poured out over us through the work of the Holy Spirit.。
I want to invite the worship team to come up.。
Our messy and broken lives, they're renewed not because of what we do,。
but they're renewed because of what Jesus has to offer and what He has done.。
And a lot of times you feel like that we first need to clean up our life and get our lives together.。
And I first need to stop my addiction before I can come to Jesus.。
But that's not how it works. Jesus is just saying, "Come, come to me.。
Let me fill you with that bread, with that water that quenches your thirst and your hunger."。
And that's when we come, and because we come to Jesus, that the power of sin is broken in our lives.。
And when He pours out His Spirit, His Holy Spirit into us,。
because of the Spirit's work and the grace, we can become different people. We can live differently.。
That's how it works. We come to Jesus' empty hand and we say, "Jesus, I need you."。
We just pour whatever's been going on. And then Jesus, He loves pouring out His grace for us.。
He loves us and He wants to give us this life that He has to offer.。
So as we receive this grace, it never leaves us untouched.。
God's grace touches us, moves us, because it's so beautiful and it's so undeserved.。
The grace of God, it breaks the power of sin and addiction in our lives.。
And today, as I was praying, I did really have the sense。
that some of us are struggling in that area, and there's been a lot of shame,。
and it's even been making it hard for us to come to church.。
But Jesus today, He wants to break the addiction and the sin, the power of that over your life.。
He wants to set you free, because He loves you. You're not created to live in that way.。
He has something better for you.。
And so when the grace of God is poured out over us, we become, it says in the Gospel of John,。
"become born again, born by the Spirit." He gives us new life. We're a new creation.。
If anyone is in Christ Jesus, He's a new creation. The old has gone, the new has come.。
Jesus does something new, something beautiful. We come with our brokenness. He takes it,。
and He does something new. And He does it over and over again, because even if you're Christian,。
we still need His grace. We still need His filling. We still need His renewing work in our lives.。
And so He's inviting all of us to come to Him, to receive, to be filled up again, to be renewed.。
I was at a point in my life a few years ago where I was just empty, had nothing left.。
I honestly didn't care if I died at that point. I've shared this story before.。
And I came to Jesus empty-handed.。
And He met me, and He poured where I had lost hope. He gave me hope and renewed faith. I thought。
there was no point in living on and moving forward. But He gave me hope to move forward.。
And where I saw a dead end, He created a new and an open way for me.。
And He spoke words over my life. "I am not finished with you yet."。
And Jesus right now, He's speaking that over our lives here. "I am not finished with you yet.。
I'm going to do something new. I'm going to break the power of sin that's been holding。
you back from all that I want to give you. And He's not finished with us yet.。
So I'm going to pray over us. Let me do this right now.。
Jesus, we come to you. We're tired. We're exhausted. We're stuck in sin.。
We're angry. You know what people are feeling and experiencing and where they're at.。
And Jesus, I thank you that when we come to you, when we come empty-handed, we say, "Jesus, I need。
you. That you meet us every single time. That you never disappoint. That you pour your Spirit over us.。
That you do a beautiful, healing, renewing, and restoring work. And Jesus, I pray right now,。
you know what everybody's going through. And I pray that in the unique way that everyone needs。
us right now, that you, Holy Spirit, we ask you to come and minister to people's hearts.。
That you do that healing, renewing, refreshing work in people's lives.。
That you pour out your grace. We need it, Jesus. And we give you the thanks that you forgive us,。
that you love us, that you redeem us, that you renew us, and that you are refreshing us right now.。
I pray this in your name, Jesus. Amen.。
I do want to invite you to just meditate and come to Jesus right now on your own.。
And then in a little while, the worship team will lead us in worship. So let's do that right now.。
Talk to God. Share with him what's been going on. And receive his grace.。
And receive the Holy Spirit and the work he wants to do in your life.。
