And we pray these things in Jesus name and the church says, amen.。
Thank you, church.。
You may have a seat.。
Thank you.。
Worship team.。
Um, if you have a spot next to you, um, if you want to squeeze in a little bit,。
we have some people at the back who still need a place to sit.。
We are full this morning.。
Praise the Lord for that.。
Um, so if there's a seat next to you, maybe you could wave your hand so our。
hosts can see that as well, that they will guide, um, yeah, someone new and。
awesome and wonderful to come sit next to you.。
If you're joining us online, a very good morning to you as well.。
Well, good morning, church.。
Always good to be together on Sunday.。
Um, Chinese new year is just around the corner.。
Today is Chinese new year's Eve Eve.。
Um, there's no lean yakko this year.。
Right.。
And so we are good.。
Huh?。
Oh, no more lean.。
Sorry, man.。
That's right.。
Okay.。
So, um, we're getting ready for Chinese new year, right?。
If you still need to go get a haircut, um, buy new underwear, maybe, right.。
Um, stuff, the Lycee packets and all that still a couple of days to get ready.。
Right.。
But when you look at Chinese new year, right, there is lots of things to prepare。
for, um, if I could summarize it in two words, Chinese new year for me has always。
been, um, surrounded between two, around two things.。
Okay.。
Food and blessings, food and blessings.。
Actually, a lot of the time, the food is the blessing, right?。
And so for me, uh, one of my most precious memories, the things I look most forward。
to, to eating a Chinese new year, um, because we only normally got it around。
this time of the year is my grandma's pig stomach soup, okay.。
Chew tall tongue.。
Okay.。
Now might sound gross to you.。
Okay.。
Don't yuck my yum.。
Okay.。
If I can convert my, uh, my wife who grew up in Texas, my white wife grew up in。
Texas, right, who loving Mac and cheese and PB and J sandwiches to love this。
soup.。
Okay.。
If you tasted it, you would love it too.。
Okay.。
Now I am a 100% chew tall boy.。
Okay.。
Gaggy lung.。
Okay.。
And so, right.。
Pig stomach soup is a classic for us, right?。
My grandma's passed away, right?。
She's been with Jesus for some years now.。
So I haven't quite found one that is quite as good, but if, if I could share。
that soup with everybody, I would, right?。
It's so good, right?。
Salty and peppery and warming, right?。
The pig stomach would, you know, like break down enough for it to, you know, um,。
to be, you know, chewy and the texture is still there, but not like completely get。
all mushy and gross in your mouth.。
Okay.。
It is just one of the best things about Chinese new year.。
I miss it a lot.。
So if any one of you here has a family recipe you want to share for Jude hotel,。
okay.。
Uh, come talk to me after the service, but this soup always reminds me of, you。
know, family, right, of provision of blessings that my grandma would give to。
us.。
Now that's just my family, but more traditional sense, right?。
Chinese new year foods are full of symbolic meaning of blessings, right?。
We dumplings symbolizing wealth, right?。
Noodles symbolizing long life, right?。
We seen the lean go right to, you know, lean go is about rising and progress and。
all that kind of stuff, right?。
Like melon seeds, squatty and all these like fruits and these sweet things。
symbolizing fruitfulness and even fertility.。
So food and blessings are going to surround us right in the next couple of。
weeks.。
And that is the goal a lot of the time during Chinese new year, one of the goals。
that we have is to try and get as many blessings as possible, right?。
So that our children are on their best behavior because usually being good in。
Chinese year means more licey, right?。
You know, as, as a kid, you get the licey and you're like desperately want to open。
it, but you know, you're not supposed to.。
So you're like trying to check it without any adults looking right.。
That used to be when I was a kid.。
Okay.。
So children suddenly on the best behavior because they want more licey.。
Okay.。
Frontline service people are suddenly super helpful, right?。
The lift comes faster, right?。
Everything gets done a lot more efficiently during this time of the year.。
Okay.。
Because of more licey, unless there's a, there's an amazing security man who works。
in our times, media center building, Mr.。
Lamb, right?。
He is like super helpful 365 days of the week, 24 seven.。
He is one of the sweetest men, um, that, you know, serves that building over there.。
But that tends to happen at this time of the year.。
Offices, right?。
If you're in the office, maybe in your office, you've already put up the cherry。
blossoms and the kumquat trees, right?。
And the idea behind that is as you put these things up, it's the hope for more。
blessings and for more business to come to your, to your workplace, homes and。
restaurants all over the city.。
You put up the fight shirt, right?。
With all these sort of, um, writings written on the doors, right?。
And the windows so that the God of fortune will somehow come past and see you and。
then drop some money off for you guys, right?。
Fireworks and firecrackers are meant to ward off evil spirits, right?。
It's estimated the newspaper is saying up to 1 million people, okay?。
1 million people are going to go to Wong Dai Sin, right?。
They're going to go there to burn incense, to spin the wheel.。
Hopefully again, in the, in the hopes that they will get blessings in return.。
Now on the surface, it all sounds super fun and festive, which it is, but at the。
same time, I can't help but wonder how much of this mindset to get as many。
blessings as possible starts to shape the way we approach our Christian faith.。
Especially as we step into Chinese New Year, right?。
Like I said, everything is accentuated at this time, but it's not just Chinese。
New Year, it just gets exaggerated at this time, but seems, seems to be a。
general mindset of our city, right?。
Get as many blessings as possible.。
What can I do to get people or the spiritual forces, whatever it is, to bless me?。
Now, don't get me wrong, okay?。
I'm not trying to hate on my own culture, but I love this time of the year, right?。
Tomorrow night, we're going to have family dinner and then we're going to have family。
dinner again and another family dinner, okay?。
We always eat a lot.。
It's a great time, okay?。
I love the joy to see the joy in my boys' faces when they give Lai Si, and I love。
blessing other children with Lai Si as well.。
But it's dangerous for us, I feel like sometimes, especially for those of us who。
call ourselves Christians, because these cultural ideas of getting wealth and。
prosperity begins to get so ingrained in us that often we begin to approach Jesus。
in this way, and we start to come to Jesus with the end goal so that he is going to。
bless us, right?。
And we treat him as some potential source of blessing, expecting that if we come to。
him, then he's going to answer all these prayers and give us whatever we want.。
And when he doesn't do that, like we've been saying for the past few weeks, like。
Andrew said last week, we begin to doubt his goodness or his power.。
And sometimes when we don't get what we need from Jesus or what we think he should。
give to us, we may end up even walking away from him altogether.。
And so the question I have in mind for us this morning is this, what are you really。
hungry for when it comes to your relationship with the Lord?。
Because if we're only following Jesus just because we want him to give us things, our。
want and desires, our plans, you know, and we only want the blessings that we feel。
like he owes us even, then we've missed the point.。
And our faith in him, right, just becomes like one of these other rituals that we。
might do, right?。
Talk about hedging your bets.。
You might as well come to church today, go to Tin Hau tomorrow, go to Wong Dai Sin。
another day, OK?。
Spread your bets, OK?。
Try and get as many sources of blessing as possible and see what happens.。
But instead, what does scripture tell us, scripture tell us we should be the ones who。
hunger and thirst for what church money, status, food, promotions, a successful。
business, an exciting love life.。
No, we have been called to hunger and thirst for righteousness and righteousness.。
That's a good standing, a right relationship with God and a right。
relationship with those around us.。
Scripture tells us to set our minds on what?。
When we're going to get the next promotion, how the stock market is doing.。
Maybe even the last that we hold in our heart sometimes.。
No, we have been called to set our minds on the things that are above.。
Not on the things of this earth.。
So when we come to today's passage, we're going to be in John chapter six.。
We're going to be seeing a group of people who, though on the surface, it seems like。
they're earnestly seeking Jesus.。
We soon find out that their hunger is misplaced and their thoughts about who he。
is and the reasons why they're coming to Jesus are badly mistaken.。
We're going to be in John chapter six.。
It's going to come up on the screen starting in about verse 26 and onward today.。
But before we get there, let me just give you a little bit of background.。
Let me set us up, OK, for what we're going to be talking about.。
So people have been just Jesus has been building a following.。
So people have been following him around for some time.。
He's been performing these signs and these miracles, healing the sick,。
wowing people with his power.。
Right. And so he goes up to the mountainside with his disciples.。
And so at this mountainside, as he's trying to rest with his disciples,。
5,000 people, the Bible says, show up.。
Now, if you know a little bit of Bible research, it says 5000.。
But actually, the Bible experts say the real number was more about。
like maybe 15 to 25,000 people, because 5000 is just the men that they counted.。
So when you count the women, the children and all the other people。
that might have been there, the number might have been about like 25,000 people.。
And the people are hungry.。
They've been following Jesus.。
They've been listening to him.。
And now there's nothing to eat right there in the middle of nowhere.。
They can't just go off and buy food.。
And so Jesus tells his disciples, hey, you guys, you know, do some work,。
you know, go and feed these people.。
You know, as the story goes, the disciples freak out.。
Like, what are we supposed to do? Right.。
There's so many people here. Right. We haven't got anything.。
We don't have enough money to buy everybody something to eat.。
Even if we did, they probably just get a bite.。
And so, like, what are we supposed to do?。
How do you expect us to feed so many people?。
And so in the end, a little boy comes with some food。
that he has five loaves and two fish.。
It's very meager. It's not very much.。
And in all four gospels, this this miracle is is recorded.。
And actually, to me, this is one of the most mind bending,。
mind blowing miracles, because I cannot even with my imagination,。
I figure out how it actually happened.。
I can imagine Jesus walking across the water. Right.。
But like, how did like did the food just like spontaneously keep reappearing?。
Like, it blows my mind how this happened.。
But it happened. OK.。
And Jesus gets everybody's down and everybody eats and the food multiply。
so that the people, scripture tells us, ate as much as they wanted.。
Everybody got the full.。
Everybody's hunger was satisfied.。
And plus some more. Right.。
There were baskets full left over at the end.。
So the first thing I want us to remember is this, OK?。
And hear me clearly when I say this church,。
Jesus can and does bless abundantly。
and in all sorts of different ways.。
Right. The feeding of the five thousand shows us this very clearly.。
Right. Why is he able to do this?。
Well, because everything in this world belongs to him anyway, does it not?。
Scripture tells us the earth is the Lord and everything in it.。
Silver and gold belong to him.。
Our God can throw open the floodgates of heaven。
and pour out his blessings beyond what we can contain.。
Right. If you want to look at the life of Job,。
if you want to look at the life of David and Solomon, you know, Solomon,。
if you look on some of these richest men in the world list, right.。
Solomon is like of all time, right.。
One of the top richest men in the whole entire world.。
Look at the life of Abraham.。
Scripture tells us that these people were literally richly blessed.。
And maybe some of us in this room have the privilege of being in that position,。
that God has blessed you with many, many great resources.。
And you know that you've been blessed by God in this way.。
And if it is you, praise God and amen.。
Right. God has blessed you, and that's a beautiful thing.。
Maybe some of you in this room。
have gone through a rough season in life.。
Maybe you are sick and in need of healing.。
Right. You reached a point where the doctor said, I can't do anything.。
We can't do anything anymore.。
But then you receive the healing.。
Maybe you were in a deep depression and anxiety and you came to the Lord。
and he gave you the peace that you were seeking.。
Maybe you were in trouble and you came to Jesus and he gave you safety.。
Maybe you were broke.。
You came to him and he gave you money and the resources that you need.。
And you found when when you came to Jesus and put your prayers before him,。
he helped you. He healed you.。
He answered those prayers.。
And this if this is you, praise God and amen.。
God has blessed you in this way.。
So it's important that you don't hear me wrong.。
God is an exceedingly generous God and he will meet all our needs.。
Scripture promises us that those who seek him like no good thing.。
It tells us that every good and perfect gift comes from the father of light.。
He is described as our refuge in times of help when we are in trouble.。
And so church always bring your prayers and needs before the Lord.。
Ask for his help.。
Ask for him to be there for you and see how he answers those prayers.。
The problem, though, however,。
the problem comes when you only come to Jesus,。
when you only come to the Lord, when you need these blessings in your time of need.。
The problem comes when your needs and your hunger become the primary。
or even the only motivation for seeking Jesus.。
And this is the problem with this crowd of people that Jesus has just fed.。
Right. He's seen them. He loved them.。
He had compassion for them.。
Right. When there was no way to get food, he feeds them in the most abundant。
and miraculous way.。
And after that, Jesus has gone off to rest.。
And so he's gone off to take a break and he's gone to the other side of town。
by walking on the water.。
OK, that's a whole other story in itself.。
He walks on the water.。
And so people are wondering, where did Jesus go? Right.。
Where is he? They're looking for him.。
And they find him on the other side of town across the lake.。
But we soon find out they're looking for him because they're not content.。
They're looking for him, not because they're interested in who he is,。
but because they want more of what they feel like he can give to them.。
So Jesus knows this and he tells them this.。
He says, you are looking for me not because you saw the signs I performed,。
but because you ate the loaves and had your fill.。
And now you want more. Right.。
You fed me yesterday. Jesus, feed me more again. Right.。
I want to see the same.。
Give me more of that bread. Give me more of that fish.。
So I repeat the question again.。
What are you truly hungry for when you look for Jesus?。
What are you hungry for?。
Now, when it comes to things we're hungry for,。
we're often willing to do a little bit of work。
to get that thing right when we're hungry.。
And in this case, it seems, you know, when it comes to a relationship with Jesus,。
we start putting this mindset as well. Right.。
We said, well, in the case of blessings, if we if we do more for Jesus,。
maybe he'll bless us more.。
That's a very typical mindset we get stuck in as well.。
I know that in my some seasons of my life, I've gone through this。
and I've times I feel like I'm still prone to it.。
There's a one or a need that we have.。
We bring it before the Lord and suddenly in that time period。
become the most committed person in the world. Right.。
We start making deals with Jesus. Oh, Jesus.。
I'm going to read my Bible for three hours every day. Right.。
I'm going to wake up in the morning.。
I'm not going to check my phone.。
I'm just going to pray on my knees.。
I'm going to stop this bad habit.。
I'm going to stop being so grumpy with my children.。
I'll be kinder to my family.。
I'll even fast for 21 days. Right.。
To to get God to answer that prayer, to meet that need, to open that door.。
But as soon as that happens.。
Your promises to him also fall flat.。
It's easy.。
It's easy to think and look like you have the right motives.。
But in the end, your true reason you're coming to Jesus,。
it's more rather what Jesus can do for you than seeking Jesus himself.。
And it's easy to think we can earn our way even to God's blessings.。
This is how the crowd reacts.。
They ask him, you know, what can we do。
to do the works God requires?。
What can we do to get these blessings?。
What can we do to get you to give us more stuff?。
And this is an earthly and misguided approach to a heavenly teaching.。
This is the mindset that the rich young ruler had when he comes to Jesus。
and says, good teacher, what must I do in order to inherit eternal life?。
And maybe some of you in this room can relate as well.。
We feel like if we act right, we do the good things.。
We'd be a good Christian.。
We go to church, we serve, we give generously, we pray, we read the Bible.。
We worship with our hands up.。
We join a community group.。
We do all these things.。
However, you know, in your heart, the true motivation behind it。
is not really because you believe or you want to get closer to Jesus.。
You're not really interested in the deep, meaningful relationship to him.。
The motivation even for doing all these things is that for God。
somehow will see us and return.。
So, oh, yeah, there's a good boy. There's a good girl.。
There's a good person. Here are some blessings.。
And we begin to treat relationship with Jesus like a business transaction.。
You know, I've invested this much time, I've invested this much energy。
into doing your work, Jesus.。
I want to see some heavenly ROI on this investment on mine. Right.。
If this is our attitude, church,。
I don't really think we can say we believe in Jesus truly.。
If this is an attitude, right, what's the difference between that。
and going off to different areas?。
Like I said just now, heading, hedging your bet, hedging your bets。
and going off to different things, seeking blessings for different resources。
just to see what works.。
I'll shake some fortune sticks here.。
I'll spin the wheel there.。
I'll come to church on Sunday and let's see which God chooses to bless me.。
Jesus doesn't tell us there's anything that we need to do.。
Actually, it's very subtle, but very important what he does here。
because they ask him so good, what do we have to do?。
What are some things we can do to get more blessings from you?。
What are the works, plural, the many things, right?。
If we do many things for you, maybe you'll bless us.。
He responds, Actually, there's nothing you have to do,。
but there is only one work.。
And Jesus says this, The work of God is this,。
to believe in the one he has sent.。
The only work, the only thing we need to do.。
Is to believe.。
So do we believe, church, in Jesus?。
Because believing is different.。
Believing isn't just about a change of actions or behavior.。
Believing means an entire changing of your heart,。
as we've been saying for the past few weeks, from the inside out.。
Believing means you embrace the fact that Jesus is who he says he is.。
Believing means that you recognize your need,。
like as we've been singing about today, for Jesus as your Lord and Savior.。
That he died for your sins, but he rose again in victory over death.。
Believing means that we don't change our behavior。
because we're trying to get God to, you know, manipulate God to do something for us.。
Believing means our heart has been most transformed by the Holy Spirit,。
that we can't do anything else other than act out of love.。
The love that God gives to us.。
Believing, as Andrew said last week, means like Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego.。
We have faith that Jesus is who he says he is.。
And even if we end up in the fiery furnace,。
our belief in him doesn't change.。
Believing means even this.。
It means even if following Jesus and giving up everything for him。
didn't didn't lead to anything that the world would call blessings.。
In fact, often it might lead to more hardship,。
more conflict, more persecution, more discomfort, more pain,。
more suffering, heartache, betrayal, poverty, sacrifice.。
Jesus himself said it right.。
The world will hate you.。
We will still continue to believe.。
Do we have that kind of belief?。
Believing means putting all our faith, not hedging our bets,。
all our faith in Jesus.。
Believing means also we need to let this go of this constantly。
asking Jesus for more, for more, for more.。
Right. How can you confirm to me, Jesus, that you are really true?。
Right. This is, again, a very Hong Kong thing.。
The the the the phenomenon of double confirmation.。
Right. Before you make a commitment to something, show me more, Jesus.。
Then maybe I'll commit.。
Give me more blessings and then maybe I'll commit to you.。
And this is what the crowd wants.。
Show us more signs. Show us more signs.。
OK, the crowd say you ask us to believe in you. Fine, then. OK.。
What sign? This is what the crowd says to Jesus in John 630.。
What sign then will you give that we might see it and believe you?。
If you would just show us more signs, then we might put our trust in you.。
Then we might live that life for you.。
Jesus, though, has a different agenda.。
You see, through these signs, he's trying to open our eyes.。
Now, a sign is just a sign, right?。
The sign, the point of the sign is to point to something greater,。
point to something better.。
Right. This is an important theme in John's gospel.。
In the Gospel of John, there are six or seven signs that he highlights.。
All these signs are miracles, but they are miracles, not just meant。
to stun people and people like, wow, that was an amazing moment.。
These signs, these miracles are meant to point towards。
showing who Jesus really is.。
OK, let's go through them quickly.。
Right. John chapter two, when Jesus turns the water into wine.。
Right. Water into wine. Amazing moment.。
The bigger thing, though, it points to is Jesus's identity.。
Jesus's confirmation as the new covenant,。
the new blood that he's going to give to us at his death.。
John, chapter four, the healing of the official son。
shows Jesus's authority over sickness.。
John, chapter five, the healing of the pool of Bethsaida。
shows Jesus's authority over the Sabbath,。
which the Jewish people held so preciously.。
John, chapter six, the feeding of the 5000.。
We'll get to that in a moment, OK?。
Another story in John, chapter six, when he walks on the water,。
shows Jesus's authority over all nature and all creation that he is.。
He was present during creation, so he has authority over to walk on the water.。
John, chapter 11 shows the raising of Lazarus from the dead,。
which is supposed to point to his authority over death.。
You see, there's always a bigger purpose of why Jesus chooses to bless us,。
to show us his love and mercy and grace through these signs and wonders.。
Yes, he wants to provide for you because he loves you.。
But more than that, he wants to show us who he really is.。
But if all we do is chase after these signs and these wonders。
and these blessings, we will never be satisfied.。
This is just the reality of our sinful human nature.。
And so Jesus doesn't answer the crowds when they say, show us a sign.。
Instead, he responds by saying these two things.。
Do not work for the food that spoils, but for the food that endures to eternal life.。
Why? Because your ancestors ate the manna in the wilderness.。
Yet they still died.。
So there's two problems here.。
Jesus is trying to show us when we go after earthly,。
when we go after these signs and these wonders all the time.。
First thing is this food on this earth will spoil.。
Meaning things of this world will get old.。
They will be ruined.。
I mean, just look at the iPhone, OK?。
Like there's another iPhone coming out.。
Do we really need another iPhone?。
Right. Every year, a new iPhone comes out that promises to be bigger,。
you know, faster, cooler, better performing than the previous one.。
I don't know how much better it can actually get.。
Right. When you have a supercomputer。
in your pocket that can literally do anything you want.。
And yet, because we want more, we want better.。
Right. We think that the iPhone's old.。
The last one's old, even though it just came out a few months ago.。
Every time a new iPhone is released, people flock to the shops.。
They keep buying and buying and buying.。
And we're never satisfied with how good it can get.。
Well, think about food, right?。
Our stomachs are also very hard to satisfy.。
We know this as Hong Kong was always looking for the next best restaurant,。
always looking for the next coolest place, right?。
There is another pizza place that's about to open in Wan Chai, OK?。
I don't know if you've walked around this neighborhood, OK?。
But we are tripping over pizza places and coffee joints, OK?。
Nathan, you tell me, OK?。
How much better can a flat white be from one place to another? OK.。
I there's like a stone's throw away.。
There's like five or six coffee shops that all claim。
to be the best flat white or the best coffee.。
It's hard to satisfy our hunger for these kind of things.。
If you look back at the text and you see this crowd,。
you might be asking, well, how many more signs do you need?。
Right. You've heard about Jesus turning water into wine, right?。
You've heard about him healing the official son from the brink of death.。
You have literally, literally just experienced Jesus feed you,。
feed 25,000 people from five bread and two fish.。
You've seen it happen before your very eyes.。
And now you're asking for more.。
Well, what more can you show me?。
But you literally just experienced it.。
The feeding of the 5000, though, wasn't just meant to satisfy。
these people's hunger there in that moment.。
The sign that was pointing to is Jesus as the ultimate provider,。
as the ultimate who can sacrifice, who can satisfy all our desires,。
not just our hungry stomachs.。
So we need to beware of this church.。
How often do we say things like, oh, Lord, you gave me this,。
but it's not enough now.。
Oh, you bless me with that, but it's getting kind of old.。
Oh, you open this door, but now I'm wondering what's happening over there.。
Can you open that door for me, too?。
Will we ever be satisfied, church?。
If we only focus on seeing the signs,。
if we only ever wonder about what Jesus is going to give me next,。
we will never be satisfied.。
There will always, always be more that we want.。
So we can't be satisfied.。
They said there were two problems.。
Second thing is this, the food, the even the blessings。
that God gives to us here now will not last into eternal life,。
meaning that we won't take any of this stuff in this life.。
This earthly life that we have into our eternal life.。
Things of this life one day will be gone.。
And we have to live this life with the reality。
that there's a life beyond this one with eternity in mind.。
Our time here is limited.。
But our life after life on this earth is for all eternity.。
And compared to eternity, the Bible tells us that life is just like a mist.。
Appears for a little while, but then disappears like the morning dew.。
We are like a mere breath.。
Psalm 39 says just.。
And it's gone.。
We are like the grass and flowers that will wither and fade.。
Isaiah 14.。
And so then it seems foolish, doesn't it, church?。
That we spend so much time and energy asking and working。
for these earthly blessings, which as good and as amazing。
as much as we need them at times are, will not come with us eternal life。
and will never satisfy this craving that all of us carry。
during our time on this earth.。
Moth and vermin will destroy our churches in heaven.。
Thieves will break in and steal them away.。
But there is a source of blessing that will always satisfy us.。
And which is why Jesus tells us to do this.。
Seek the bread that will endure forever for all eternity.。
The bread that will never spoil the bread that if we eat,。
we will never go hungry again.。
The bread that is truly able to satisfy our deepest needs.。
Where can we find this bread?。
You see, true satisfaction in life isn't this elusive goal。
that everybody's like, how can I be?。
What's the meaning?。
Well, how can I really be satisfied in my life?。
This is actually a goal that all people can receive.。
Jesus tells us this.。
John 6 35, where can we find this bread?。
Jesus says, I am the bread of life.。
Whoever comes to me will never go hungry.。
Whoever believes in me will never be thirsty.。
And it repeats it again a bit later.。
I am the living bread that came down from heaven.。
Whoever eats this bread will live forever.。
The bread is my flesh, which I give for the life of the world.。
What Jesus is saying is this.。
Instead of seeking me and following me for what I can give or do for you.。
Instead of coming to me just so you would receive my blessings.。
I want you to see me for who I truly am.。
All these things I give to you are to help you to realize who I am.。
Because it's only when you come to me.。
And for me alone that you will ever be fully and truly be satisfied.。
So church.。
Will we be satisfied by Jesus?。
To eat his bread.。
To partake in his flesh means to fully surrender to him.。
To identify to him to literally have a spirit living inside of you.。
Are you willing to bow your knees and and bow your head?。
Are you willing to say truly nothing else will satisfy me more than Jesus will?。
Even if all the blessings were stripped away.。
Even when all good things have run dry.。
Will you still choose to be satisfied in Jesus?。
This is the kind of heart that he's after.。
This is where true life is found.。
And in the passage when the crowds hear this.。
They hear that Jesus is the spread of life.。
They hear that this is the source of you know, of eternal satisfaction.。
They cry out then give us this bread.。
We want to receive this bread.。
Give us this bread.。
But this is the cry of the world.。
This like the cry of our hearts within all of us.。
There's a sense of this hunger that cannot be satisfied.。
Even if every blessing becomes a reality.。
But this bread is right here for us to partake.。
And Jesus has already given himself to us.。
The question is will we choose to eat of it?。
And so church as we enter this new year, hear this clearly.。
All the blessings that we ever could need.。
Can be truly found in Jesus alone.。
Not through more striving to try and grab more.。
Not trying harder to be better.。
Not in rituals.。
But in believing in receiving and in feeding on Jesus.。
The bread of life.。
This is where this life-giving relationship we talk about so much comes from.。
Not only going after what he can give to us.。
But going after him alone.。
And as we give our lives to Jesus as we find our satisfaction in him.。
Just watch how he looks after us.。
Watch how he takes care of his people.。
Watch how he gives us everything you need.。
Because he loves us.。
So as we go into Chinese New Year, I pray enjoy the blessings of family.。
And food and all the beautiful things that we get to celebrate and this time.。
But remember this too.。
To eat the food that Jesus gives to you is to partake of himself.。
To receive him and allow him to live in you and through you.。
That is truly all the blessings that you will ever need in life.。
Would you pray with me church?。
As Andrew was saying earlier, you know, perhaps there's some work that we need to do in our hearts today.。
And maybe this is a moment where we need to just come before Jesus and maybe acknowledge that.。
Yeah, maybe we have been coming to him as sort of just another God that might bless us.。
And it's subtle.。
And that's why I think, you know, when Andrew was saying it's a spiritual work.。
And there is, I think there is a deep spiritual element that's caught up in all of this.。
That we just maybe gloss over because it's cultural.。
And maybe for some of us we need to let go of some of our superstitions and some of our beliefs.。
That okay, I believe in Jesus, but I'm still going to try and trust in some of these other things in case it might work.。
And the Lord is asking us today to fully surrender to him.。
And so if that's you right now.。
Yeah, I don't, I don't, Jesus isn't mad or angry or anything like that.。
But his heart does break when he sees you trying so desperately to find satisfaction in other things.。
It's like you're eating fistfuls of sand.。
Trying to quench this thirst when Jesus said, "I am the living water."。
It's like you're gorging yourself on all this food that just leaves you feeling empty and hungry straight away.。
And when we come to Jesus, there's a feast of him that he places before you to say,。
"If you will find your satisfaction in me, you will truly never be hungry in that way ever again."。
And so Jesus, we give ourselves to you because you've given yourself to us.。
May our hearts and our minds truly be able to say that nothing else will satisfy apart from you.。
We thank you for the way you look after us.。
We thank you for the blessings that you so graciously and lavishly pour out over our lives.。
But even if it doesn't, Jesus, our belief in you remains strong.。
You're the only one that we need, Jesus.。
Help us to live our lives for you and you alone.。
In your name we pray, Church.。
Amen.。
you。
