# Oh, it's when you... #。
Imagine with me for a moment a church.。
This is not a church in the singular, on its own and distinct,。
but a church in the plural, united across a nation,。
joined in purpose,。
focused on building up God's kingdom one life at a time.。
It is a church that has at the heart of its DNA。
the grand narrative of the redemptive story of Jesus Christ,。
and that celebrates in the freedom and grace。
that such a story brings.。
This church is not constricted by the walls of a building,。
but actively engaged in the community it is planted in,。
desiring for God's kingdom to take root and bear fruit in local soil.。
A church that sees salvation as holistic,。
transforming God's people for God's work。
and equipping a generation to represent God's heart。
to the poor, the weak, the oppressed and the persecuted.。
Imagine this church committed to seeing the family as integral。
to all that it's called to be and do,。
involving intentional, committed and authentic relationships。
across all levels.。
It is the sort of place where both the young and the old。
feel cared for, supported and equipped.。
A church where people of all backgrounds and traditions。
come to feel at home,。
a cultural mosaic that honours and embraces。
a richness and diversity that marks us as the body of Christ.。
It is a church that is willing to innovate and express faith creatively,。
reflecting the boundless limits of God's creativity as glory to Him.。
A place where people gather, hungry for the presence of God。
and passionate to see this invade all aspects of their lives,。
where they seek to develop an intelligent, spiritual faith,。
rooted in God's word and driven with prayer.。
A church that does not make its Sunday services。
the exclamation mark of its existence,。
but instead the comma in its ongoing sentence.。
A time of service, love and engagement that inspires and emboldens。
all equally for the conversation that lies ahead.。
A church that cares, disciples, rebuilds, renews.。
This is our city.。
This is our church.。
This is our home.。
And this is the 11.30 service.。
Good morning, everyone.。
Anybody here? Anybody here? Hi.。
All right, so first of all,。
if you're here for the Cantonese service just now,。
who are the Cantonese people here?。
I just want to say hello to you, love you.。
Thank you for coming.。
And then we're starting the English service now.。
So you guys are here for the right service.。
Good, good, good. Okay.。
Like you guys look a little bit tired.。
Are you okay?。
Okay.。
If you come in here, you see it's Chinese New Year soon.。
I can sing you a Chinese New Year song to wake you up if you want to.。
No, that's okay.。
Let's not do that. Let's not do that.。
Gong Xi Gong Xi Gong Xi.。
No, this is not the kind of song we're singing,。
in case you're worried.。
Why don't we stand up and we're going to worship together.。
You see, as you know, in Hong Kong here,。
we celebrate two New Years.。
So in case some of your New Year resolution。
is not working too well,。
in the first month of 2024, you have the second one.。
And we've been preaching this fresh encounter with God.。
So I hope by the end of the sermon today,。
this is the end of the series, Fresh Encounter.。
I hope, I pray that you're ready,。
finally ready for the New Year.。
Amen?。
All right, come on.。
Let's, why don't we pray together?。
Oh God, we love you.。
It's just so good that we can be here on a Sunday morning,。
be with our church family, be in your presence.。
God, we are here to lift you up, Lord God.。
I pray for all those who has a great January,。
a great start of 2024.。
We're here to give thanks to you.。
I pray for those who might not have a great start in 2024,。
but God, we thank you,。
not just because we have another New Year coming,。
but because in you, every day is new.。
Your mercies are new every single morning.。
So God, we praise you.。
We lift you up.。
God, we're here for that fresh encounter today.。
Lord God, whatever we brought with us today。
here in this room, Lord, we lay down at your feet.。
Holy Spirit, I pray you would come and fill this room。
and fill your presence in this place right now。
as we sing in Jesus' name we pray.。
Everybody say, amen.。
(soft music)。
♪ We're returning to repentance ♪。
♪ We come humbly to your presence ♪。
♪ Lord Jesus, all that matters now is you ♪。
♪ We lay down our agendas ♪。
♪ All our burdens and offenses ♪。
♪ Lord Jesus, all that matters now is you ♪。
♪ And all that matters now is you ♪。
♪ Christ is our portion ♪。
♪ Christ our devotion ♪。
♪ Christ is the center of our lives ♪。
♪ He is our obsession ♪。
♪ He is our confession ♪。
♪ Christ is the center of our lives ♪。
♪ In the morning ♪。
♪ In the morning, in the evening ♪。
♪ You're the one thing we are seeking ♪。
♪ We come boldly ♪。
♪ We are open to you now ♪。
♪ You are healing all division ♪。
♪ You are mending all that's broken ♪。
♪ Make us holy, make us holy like you are ♪。
♪ And all ♪。
♪ And all that matters now is you ♪。
♪ Christ is our portion ♪。
♪ Christ our devotion ♪。
♪ Christ is the center of our lives ♪。
♪ He is ♪。
♪ He is our obsession ♪。
♪ He is our confession ♪。
♪ And Christ is the center of our lives ♪。
♪ As for me in this house ♪。
♪ As for me in this house ♪。
♪ We will serve you, glorify you ♪。
♪ Let it be in this house ♪。
♪ This house right here ♪。
♪ That we love you and obey you ♪。
♪ You are Lord of this house ♪。
♪ You're the first and you're the only ♪。
♪ In the midst of us now ♪。
♪ You are holy, you are worthy ♪。
♪ Christ is our portion ♪。
♪ Christ is our portion ♪。
♪ Christ our devotion ♪。
♪ Christ is the center of our lives ♪。
♪ Yeah ♪。
♪ He is our obsession ♪。
♪ He is our confession ♪。
♪ Christ is the center of our lives ♪。
♪ As for me ♪。
♪ As for me in this house ♪。
- Come on, let that be your declaration.。
♪ We will serve you, glorify you ♪。
♪ Let it be in this house ♪。
♪ That we love you and obey you ♪。
♪ You are Lord of this house ♪。
♪ You're the first and you're the only ♪。
♪ In the midst of us now ♪。
♪ You are holy, you are worthy ♪。
- Just the voices.。
Christ is our portion.。
♪ Christ is our portion ♪。
♪ Christ our devotion ♪。
♪ Christ is the center of our lives ♪。
♪ He is, he is our obsession ♪。
♪ He is our confession ♪。
♪ Christ is the center of our lives ♪。
- And oh, all that matters.。
♪ And oh, all that matters now is you ♪。
♪ Yes, Jesus, all that matters is you ♪。
♪ Oh, all that matters now is you ♪。
♪ You're all that matters, Jesus ♪。
♪ And oh, all that matters now is you ♪。
♪ One last time ♪。
♪ And oh, all that matters now is you ♪。
(gentle music)。
♪ Are you hurting and broken within ♪。
♪ Overwhelmed by the weight of your sin ♪。
♪ Jesus is calling ♪。
♪ Have you come to the end of yourself ♪。
♪ Do you thirst for a drink from the well ♪。
♪ Jesus is calling ♪。
♪ Come to the altar ♪。
♪ The Father's arms are open wide ♪。
♪ Forgiveness was bought with ♪。
♪ The precious blood of Jesus Christ ♪。
♪ Leave behind your regrets and mistakes ♪。
♪ Come today, there's no reason to wait ♪。
♪ Jesus is calling ♪。
♪ Bring your sorrows and trade them for joy ♪。
♪ From the ashes a new life was born ♪。
♪ Jesus is calling ♪。
- As he's calling you, oh, come.。
♪ Oh, come to the altar ♪。
♪ The Father's arms are open wide ♪。
♪ Forgiveness was bought with ♪。
♪ The precious blood of Jesus Christ ♪。
♪ Oh, come to the altar ♪。
♪ The Father's arms are open wide ♪。
♪ Forgiveness was bought with ♪。
♪ The precious blood of Jesus Christ ♪。
♪ Thank you for your blood ♪。
- Sing, oh, what a Savior.。
♪ Oh, what a Savior ♪。
♪ Isn't he wonderful ♪。
♪ Sing hallelujah ♪。
♪ Christ is risen ♪。
- Hallelujah.。
♪ Now, now before him ♪。
♪ For he is Lord of all ♪。
♪ Sing hallelujah ♪。
♪ Christ is risen ♪。
- Come on, do you believe it?。
Sing, oh, what a.。
♪ Oh, what a Savior ♪。
♪ Isn't he wonderful ♪。
- You are so wonderful, Jesus.。
♪ Sing hallelujah ♪。
♪ Christ is risen ♪。
♪ Now, now before him ♪。
♪ Before him ♪。
♪ For he is Lord of all ♪。
♪ Sing hallelujah ♪。
♪ Christ is risen ♪。
- Sing, oh, come on.。
Yeah.。
♪ Oh, come to the altar ♪。
♪ The Father's arms are open wide ♪。
♪ Forgiveness was bought with ♪。
♪ The precious blood of Jesus Christ ♪。
♪ Oh, come to the altar ♪。
♪ The Father's arms are open wide ♪。
♪ Forgiveness was bought with ♪。
♪ The precious blood of Jesus Christ ♪。
- This is the very reason we come week after week,。
month after month.。
We come and worship, we come and celebrate that forgiveness,。
that our Father's arms are open wide.。
And this is why we do this every single month,。
that we come together and we have served the communion.。
Our welcome team are going to pass out the bread right now.。
As you are holding this bread,。
let me just read to you what it means.。
So the night before Jesus went to the cross,。
he was having this Passover meal with his disciples.。
And while they were eating, Jesus took bread.。
And when he had given thanks,。
he broke it and gave it to his disciples saying,。
"Take and eat, this is my body."。
What you're holding right now symbolizes God's,。
Jesus's body, a body that has been broken for us.。
There is this veil in the temple back in Jesus's day,。
the moment when Jesus died on the cross,。
as he breathed his last breath, the veil was torn.。
That veil represents that something that blocked God's。
and man's, something that separated God and man.。
But that veil was torn the moment Jesus died.。
This symbolizes that his body is broken for us。
so that we could, he sacrificed himself for us。
so that there is no more obstacle between God and you.。
And like what Pastor Andrew spoke of last week,。
confession and repentance, it's a way to intimacy.。
It's a way to freedom.。
And that's why the apostle Paul reminded us。
as we come to this table, as we come to the altar,。
let's once again, let's come with a joyful confession,。
a joy-based confession today.。
And you can tell God what you are struggling,。
what you are, the things that in your life。
that you're not proud of,。
but knowing that he has set you free。
through breaking of his body.。
So if we all have this bread in our hands right now,。
church, I invite you as you take it,。
take it with this joyful, joy-based confession。
and repentance in front of God.。
Let's take this together.。
Our team will be passing out the juice right now.。
Jesus took up the cup and he had given thanks.。
He passed it to his disciples saying,。
"Drink from it, all of you.。
Drink from it today, church."。
Jesus says, "This is my blood of the covenant,。
which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins."。
Jesus made this new covenant with his blood。
so that you know your sin and my sins are forgiven today.。
This is your assurance.。
As you come, when you confess,。
why is there a joyful or joy-based kind of confession?。
Because Jesus has made a new covenant with you and me.。
He has promised you and me that he is going to forgive our sins.。
It's not just freeing us from the consequence of sin,。
but freeing us from the bondage of sin itself.。
He's giving us this new freedom.。
He's giving us this new intimacy that we could have with him。
as we're celebrating in the last couple of weeks。
in the sermon series, Fresh Encounter.。
So let us encounter him once again.。
As we're holding this cup,。
as we're about to take this cup together,。
let's remember this is what we come for.。
When we come to the altar,。
we come for that open arms of our Father.。
We come for that new intimacy,。
fresh intimacy you could have through the sacrifice of Jesus.。
This is what this communion is about.。
It's about this fresh encounter we've been talking the entire month.。
So if everyone has a cup in their hand,。
why don't we take it together right now?。
Jesus, we thank you for your sacrifice,。
for dying on the cross.。
Without your work on the cross,。
whatever we've preached in the last couple of weeks,。
they're nothing.。
We wouldn't have this fresh encounter.。
We wouldn't have this intimacy without your sacrifice.。
So Jesus, we're here today once again。
to bring you a praise and a thanks saying,。
God, Jesus, thank you for dying on the cross。
to make this intimacy, to make this freedom,。
to make this encounter today possible.。
So church, why don't we go on, press into his presence today,。
continue to worship him.。
[music]。
I trust in God, my Savior, the one who will never fail.。
He will never fail.。
Blessed assurance, Jesus is mine.。
He's been my fourth man in the fire time after time.。
Born of his Spirit, washed in his blood.。
And what he did for me on Calvary is more than enough.。
I trust in God, my Savior, the one who will never fail.。
He will never fail.。
I trust in God, my Savior, the one who will never fail.。
He will never fail.。
Perfect submission, all is at rest.。
I know the author of tomorrow has ordered my steps.。
So this is my story.。
This is my song.。
I praise him, my risen King and Savior, all the day long.。
I trust, I trust in God, my Savior, the one who will never fail.。
He will never fail.。
I trust in God, my Savior, the one who will never fail.。
He will never fail.。
[music]。
How many of you believe that?。
He will never fail.。
Sing, I sought.。
I sought the Lord and he heard and he answered.。
I sought the Lord and he heard and he answered.。
I sought the Lord and he heard and he answered.。
That's why I trust him.。
That's why I trust him.。
I sought the Lord and he heard and he answered.。
I sought the Lord and he heard and he answered.。
I sought the Lord and he heard and he answered.。
That's why I trust him.。
I trust the Lord and I sought the Lord.。
I sought the Lord and he heard and he answered.。
I sought the Lord and he heard and he answered.。
I sought the Lord and he heard and he answered.。
That's why I trust him.。
That's why I trust him.。
I sought the Lord and he heard and he answered.。
I sought the Lord and he heard and he answered.。
That's why I trust him.。
That's why I trust him.。
God, my Savior, you're the one.。
He will never fail.。
He will never fail.。
I trust in God.。
My Savior, the Lord.。
He will never fail.。
We trust in you, Jesus.。
He will never fail.。
You're our firm foundation.。
Cornerstone on which the house is built on.。
That's why we trust in you.。
That's why we trust in you.。
We trust you, Jesus.。
We trust you, Jesus.。
We trust you, Jesus.。
You will never fail.。
I trust you, God.。
I trust you, Jesus.。
I trust you, Jesus.。
It's interesting that the bridge of this song, it talks about。
someone who has sought God.。
I seek him.。
I pray to him.。
And he answered me.。
That's why I trust him.。
I believe there are some of us like this here.。
You see him working in your life.。
He answered you.。
He answered your prayer.。
You see him working in your life.。
Yes, hallelujah, amen.。
Thank you, God.。
He said, yes, I know I can trust him.。
And I encourage you to continue to worship him if you are in。
this category.。
But I do believe right here today there are -- there's another。
camp of people.。
You've been praying.。
You've been seeking him.。
You've been begging him, if you will.。
But you haven't seen anything in your life right now.。
That situation has not changed a single bit.。
That mountain has not been moved yet.。
I do want to encourage or I do want to invite, if you're one of。
those people, I do want to invite you to put your trust in God。
today equally.。
God is a God even if we cannot see he's at work.。
God is a God even when we cannot see it.。
His love never changes.。
And that takes faith to believe.。
And I am inviting you to step into a faith journey if you are。
one of those people today.。
We're going to sing this chorus once again, like I trust the。
Lord, like he will never fail.。
If you have seen his work in your life, go on, sing even。
louder.。
If you haven't seen it yet, I invite you to sing with the。
voice of faith.。
Faith means before you're seeing it, you are believing it.。
So I invite you, church, let's sing.。
Either you sing with a heart of gratitude of thanksgiving or you。
sing with a declaration of faith here today.。
Let's do it, church.。
Let's do it one more time.。
I sought the Lord.。
I sought the Lord.。
And he heard and he answered.。
I sought the Lord.。
And he heard and he answered.。
I sought the Lord.。
And he heard and he answered.。
That's why I trust him.。
That's why I trust him.。
I sought the Lord.。
And he heard and he answered.。
I sought the Lord.。
And he heard and he answered.。
I sought the Lord.。
And he heard and he answered.。
That's why I trust him.。
That's why I trust him.。
Savior, the one who will never fail.。
He will never fail.。
He will never fail.。
I trust my God.。
I trust my God.。
Savior, the one who will never fail.。
He will never fail.。
God, I give thanks to answered prayer.。
But God, we come before you with faith and hope for those。
unanswered prayer equally.。
God, you said hope means believing before seeing it.。
You said if we could see it already, who needs hope for what。
they can see.。
So God, today we enter the place and say regardless whether we。
see that prayer being answered, my song remain the same.。
I trust the Lord.。
I trust the Lord today.。
I trust the Lord today regardless whether I see results.。
I trust the Lord with all my heart today.。
So God, I come before you, God, I pray for those whose prayer was。
answered.。
God, I thank you for them.。
God, I come before you on behalf of those whose prayers has not。
been answered yet.。
God, I pray you would give us a fresh faith and fresh hope today。
to sing this song with conviction knowing that yes, even when I。
don't see it, that doesn't change my faith.。
That doesn't change my trust in you, Jesus.。
Because of that communion we have taken, we know what you have。
done on the cross.。
I put my faith in that.。
I put my faith in a God who loves me, who died for me and who。
is coming back to right every wrong, coming back to make all。
things new for me.。
So God, we trust you.。
I pray you come and give us this fresh faith, fresh hope, and a。
fresh encounter.。
In Jesus' name we pray.。
Everybody say amen.。
Can we put our hands together for Jesus.。
[Applause]。
Hallelujah.。
And thank you worship team.。
Thank you so much.。
Please be seated, everyone.。
Whoo.。
It's good to see everyone.。
Hi, we just want to welcome every single one of you to the。
Vine Yuen Long.。
We're so happy you're here.。
My name is Chapman.。
I am one of the pastors here.。
And we also love to say hello to those if you're visiting for the。
very first time, you're coming with a friend or you just Googled。
us and then you decided to come.。
If you're here, I would love to invite you to just wave your。
hand a little bit.。
We want to know where you are.。
Just want to welcome you.。
We're not going to embarrass you, don't worry.。
But if you're here for the very first time, would you like to。
just wave?。
Oh, hi.。
Thank you.。
Good to see you.。
We're so happy you're here.。
And we can't wait to let you know more about who we are as a。
church community and what we do here.。
But before that, what we're going to do right now is to release。
the kids in our midst.。
They're going to K4C 3-5, 6-12.。
There they are.。
If you have a very, very young baby, you can bring him or her。
into the playroom in the back as well.。
So why don't we stretch out our hands to pray for the kids。
around us.。
All right.。
Jesus, we thank you for our children.。
They have a pure heart.。
Sometimes what they say, what they're thinking, what they're。
perceiving amazes us.。
And God, sometimes we can learn from them as well.。
I can -- yeah, I can recall countless moments where I'm。
learning from my daughter how to pray because of that kind of。
pure faith.。
So God, I just pray you would bless them today.。
I pray for a fresh encounter in every single K4C classroom with。
all the teachers, with all the kids there.。
I pray you would speak to them today and you would encounter。
them in a very special way.。
In Jesus' name we pray.。
Amen.。
All right.。
See you, kids.。
And if you have parents, you may send them to the room and come。
back.。
And if you're remaining here in your seat right now, why don't。
you turn to someone around you and just introduce your name,。
say hi, you know, say -- like Chinese New Year is coming and。
why don't we just go and spend some time with each other.。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
All right, we're back.。
All right, sorry to interrupt because we have a lot of great。
information we want to bring to you.。
Doing some announcements right now.。
First of all, Alpha, who has been to an Alpha before?。
Wow, awesome.。
You must know what Alpha is like.。
You must know that Alpha is for people who don't necessarily。
call themselves Christians.。
And I believe you have a lot of those people around you in your。
workplace, maybe at home, maybe in your neighborhood.。
So we're going to talk a little bit about Alpha today.。
So the dates, you must see, look at the screen right now, this。
round of Alpha starts on the 21st of February.。
That's in about two weeks' time.。
So it's time to invite people.。
I'm going to tell you a little bit more about how to invite。
people, but if you have signed up to be a volunteer, please be。
reminded that our volunteer training starts at 2 p.m.。
today in the library.。
So go grab a quick lunch and come back at 2 p.m.。
We'll start the training on time.。
And before I tell you a little bit more about inviting people,。
first of all, I would love to invite a friend, two friends on。
stage.。
They'll share a little bit with us.。
So why don't we put our hands together for Leslie and Tinny.。
Let me give you a mic.。
[Applause]。
>> Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Good morning.。
Is it good morning?。
Yeah, it's morning.。
Sorry, I was doing the Chinese services this morning.。
Good morning, everyone.。
Very nice to meet you.。
My name is Leslie.。
This is my wife, Tinny.。
I was asked by Pastor Ivan to share my experience about Alpha。
and what it's done for me and my family.。
But maybe I want to take you a little bit back to my journey。
here.。
I started at EIS.。
We came to EIS.。
You probably wouldn't have saw me because honestly I was。
categorizing as what I call myself a bare minimum Christian.。
So that just means I come in, I'm here for an hour and a half。
and then I'm gone.。
I just felt that something was missing in my life.。
I just remember sitting here just like you guys looking at this。
poster back in 2023 and I thought what a great initiative,。
right?。
A program where I got to debunk some of the questions that were。
in my head, try to understand things like why do we pray, how。
do we pray, why do we read the Bible.。
I thought that was quite interesting.。
I'll be honest with you, the program, I didn't complete the。
whole thing, unfortunately.。
I'm not very committed except for my marriage.。
I'm not a very committed guy.。
I just remember getting this one message, a WhatsApp message from。
a good friend, Dorothy.。
She really encouraged me to come and check it out.。
I got to say the first thing that really I came up to this,。
down up the stairs and the first thing was the food was amazing.。
So if you guys love good food and the food is always different,。
food is really tasty.。
You come in with an empty stomach and an open mind and it's。
so refreshing.。
I came in and met -- kind of sat down with everybody.。
Really talked about -- watched some really interesting videos.。
Talked about those things I just mentioned.。
How do you pray?。
Why do you pray?。
Why do we read the Bible?。
How do you read the Bible?。
I found it so refreshing.。
Those people became good friends.。
We still have really -- we go play badminton every week now.。
That became pretty much my community and my friendship.。
This journey has really had sort of a renowned sort of。
relationship between me and God.。
I really encourage everybody here who wants that,。
you know, what I had, to try it.。
They really give it a good shot.。
I'll pass this time over to my wife and maybe let her share her。
experience as well.。
[Applause]。
Hi.。
So for me, I have been going to church since I was young,。
like when I was a kid, teenage.。
You can go to faith because I just trust in God and went there。
and I didn't really question.。
But this time around, I have a chance to go with my husband。
because I need to support him, right,。
because I need to make sure he completes everything.。
So just so you know, we just started the fourth class.。
Yeah, so it's great that, you know,。
you guys are very welcoming, that, you know,。
we can still join in the middle.。
And then for me, at first, of course,。
I was just like being there for him.。
But I found it very different this time because there's a lot。
of topics that I've never asked myself.。
Like, you know, what Leslie said, like what's prayer,。
who's Jesus?。
Like I know, but I kind of like never question, right?。
So like this is something that have a great impact in my life.。
I feel like I have a fresh encounter with God.。
And also like this is a true meaning in our family as well.。
I feel like after that, like two months,。
like short a few weeks, it's actually our family,。
our relationship is a lot deepened as well.。
So I highly encourage anyone, even with my background similar,。
can also join the Alpha as well.。
Thank you.。
[Applause]。
Awesome.。
Thank you so much.。
And when you come in, you would find some items on your seat.。
Yes, there's always the envelope for offering,。
but you will also find a postcard.。
This is for us to invite our friends, our family,。
our colleagues, and you see it explain a little bit。
what Alpha is.。
There are the dates and time, and also there's a QR code。
if you scan it, and that's a sign-up link.。
And you say when you were listening to Tinny and Leslie,。
they mentioned someone actually invited them.。
And you see there's actually power in our invitation.。
We may not be powerful, like eloquent evangelists,。
we can explain the entire gospel to people,。
but one simple invitation would work as well.。
So that's what we want to encourage everyone to do together.。
You have this tiny little business card size,。
this small card here, it's self-explanatory what it does.。
You can write down three names of the people you would like。
to invite to explore faith, meaning you want to invite them to Alpha.。
You can set a daily alarm at 1102.。
There's a meaning.。
There's a scripture, Luke 11, verse 2.。
You can go back and read it yourself.。
But set an alarm.。
You can set it once a day, twice a day, and you can pray for these three people。
or pray for Hong Kong as well.。
And then be open, expectant.。
Of course, don't forget to invite them.。
And just so you know, Alpha is starting in two weeks,。
so if you're thinking, "Let me pray for them for three months,"。
you can try to shorten it.。
Let's do an express kind of prayer.。
Make sure you invite them before the start of Alpha.。
Anyway, so this is what the card is for.。
There are three blank spaces there.。
You can write down three names and pray for them every day.。
This card is small.。
It's for you to bring it with you every day.。
So wherever you are at 1102 when the alarm rings,。
you can just take out this card, pray for your friends or family or colleagues.。
Sounds good?。
Who's going to do it?。
Oh, like two people.。
All right, great.。
I think we can save--no, I'm not okay.。
I trust in you guys as well.。
So that's awesome.。
So Alpha is the first step, and then we can also take one more step in our faith,。
and that is actually baptism.。
I just want to give you the dates.。
Our next baptism happens on Easter Day.。
That is the 31st of March.。
The last day of March is Easter Sunday.。
There will be two classes, 10th and 17th of March.。
Take out your cameras, save the dates,。
and we'll bring you more information in the next couple of weeks.。
Is there anything else I need to talk about?。
I think that's it.。
Oh, so you see all the beautiful decorations for Chinese New Year,。
and we actually have some--what do we call--like fai chun, is it?。
So some very nice calligraphy, Chinese writing,。
and someone has very honestly donated their talent to us.。
And so you can pick up one of those and donate as well,。
donate your finance, and then that would go into ministry as usual.。
So that's how we can support what we're doing at church.。
And talking about supporting church financially or where we're at,。
I would love to invite Pastor Tim on stage,。
and he's going to give us a financial update.。
Let's welcome Pastor Tim.。
Here we go.。
All right.。
Yes, so I know a lot of numbers, right?。
One thing that's important for us as a church is we want to be transparent。
about our finances and keep you updated in the loop as to what's happening.。
And so we thought it was time for that, beginning of the year, it's a good time.。
So I just wanted to share in 2024, so our overall budget is 5.721 million。
Hong Kong dollars, and that's made up out of three categories.。
So we have rent and facilities, so that's like management fees, of course,。
rent, utilities, you know, all of that.。
Then there is pastoral and outreach, so it's everything we do as a church.。
The alpha that you just heard about is involved in that.。
Our K4C, any collaboration with NGOs that we do together with you,。
anything we do here is part of that, any ministry expenses there.。
And then the final one is additional operating expenses, that's like IT stuff,。
cleaning, those types of things, insurance.。
So that's what makes up the 5.721 million.。
And so that's the kingdom investment that is needed for us to operate here,。
to do the work that we believe God has called us to.。
Now, can we go to the next slide, please?。
So we're a church plant, so we don't have these finances as of right now.。
And Wan Chai, the church that has sent us the vine in Wan Chai,。
they are supporting us, but it tapers off over time.。
So in the first year, which is starting this year, they're supporting us。
with 80% of our expenses, 60%, 40%, 20%, and then by God's grace,。
we're self-financing at that time.。
But I want to talk a little bit about 2024.。
So we're responsible for 20% of the expenses.。
So that means 1.144 million a year or 95,000 a month.。
And one thing I want to share with that is that actually,。
we actually need to already in this year move over here,。
because at 2025, you know, this is roughly what we need to cover.。
And so that's our aim for this year is to move towards the 40%。
so that when we come to the end of the year, we're around that.。
We can go to the next slide.。
So I want to show a little bit of where we've been.。
So our giving in October, November, December has been between, I think, 76K and 89.。
And so we've--in that time, we didn't go over that 95K threshold.。
But I'm really encouraged this January, you have given。
160,000 Hong Kong dollars in January.。
And so I want to just thank you for your generosity in that.。
And I was amazed, and I'm, you know, praising God for that.。
And so I hope you're encouraged by that.。
So this is--so we're heading in the right direction.。
I also wanted to just say for me as a pastor, it's--if this is your home church--。
or if you're visiting, I'm sorry, you have to listen to a finance update.。
But if this is your home church, I do want to ask you to prayerfully consider what you might give.。
We don't--we just trust that God will speak to you about what to give.。
We don't tell anyone what they need to give.。
But for me, it would be significant if everybody gives something.。
And so I just want to encourage you in that.。
And also another way to bless us as well with this is if you set up regular giving,。
because then we know what we're working with, and that is just a blessing for us.。
Now, there have been a lot of new donations this month.。
And not everyone has given us your name and a screenshot of the receipt of giving.。
If you want to get a tax receipt, we do need that information.。
You can email your full name and payment slip or a screenshot of your giving to accounts@thevine.org.hk.。
We want to make sure we issue also you a tax receipt.。
If you have questions about that, you can talk to us.。
You can also talk to Ada.。
Ada, do you mind giving us a wave?。
She's back there.。
She's actually the head of finance from all of the Vine churches.。
So she can answer all your questions.。
No pressure.。
And we're grateful and blessed to have you here and that as well.。
But anyhow, so I wanted to give you this update.。
We'll probably do this quarterly.。
I hope you're encouraged.。
Thank you so much for your faithful giving.。
And right now, we actually do want to transition into that part of our worship,。
which is taking up our tithes and our offerings.。
And so I want to invite the welcome team to come up.。
And, yeah, so part of our worship is following Jesus in all areas of our lives.。
And that includes our finances.。
And so as Christians, we believe that everything we have belongs to God, everything we have.。
And so part of that God has entrusted us with is to be stewards.。
And so when we give, we're offering this up to God as part of our worship to contribute to the work that he's doing.。
And so there's a verse down here.。
We have it on here.。
I'll actually just read it.。
It says, "Each of you should give what you have decided in your heart to give, not reluctantly or under compulsion.。
For God loves a cheerful giver, and God is able to bless you abundantly.。
So that in all things, at all times, having all that you need, you will abound in every good work."。
So that's from 2 Corinthians 9, 7, and 8.。
But I would just love to pray for our offering.。
So let's do this right now.。
Jesus, we thank you.。
We praise you for your faithfulness and how you have been providing.。
We thank you for all that you give us to live, that you can meet us in our needs, that everything we have comes from you.。
And right now, we want to turn around and we want to offer these things to you as part of our worship.。
And we ask that you use these resources for your work, for your kingdom work here in Yuen Long, that we can love, serve, and impact people with your good news.。
And so we pray that you bless it.。
We pray this in your name, Jesus.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
So right now, I have the privilege of inviting up June.。
Let's give June a hand.。
[Applause]。
So June is our senior pastoral associate.。
That's quite formal, right?。
And she has a gift of teaching and preaching.。
And so we always love to hear from you, and we love to see that develop and grow.。
And so we'd love to pray for her.。
And I want to invite you to stretch out your hands as we pray for her, but also pray for us as well.。
Jesus, thank you so much for June.。
Thank you for all the gifts and talents you have placed in her.。
Thank you for the word that you have given her for us here today.。
May you anoint her with your Holy Spirit.。
May you speak powerfully through her.。
And may you ready our hearts to receive what it is that you want to say to us.。
So we pray this in your name, Jesus.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Thank you.。
Thank you, Tim.。
I'm so scared.。
[Laughter]。
But let me also tell you a little bit about myself.。
There are a few things that you might find interesting about me.。
First of all, when I was young, I'm really not good at reading.。
Well, maybe not even not good at.。
I'm scared of reading English books.。
When I was young, if I see an English book on the floor, I will not touch it.。
Because I know that if I touch it, I'll be responsible for it.。
That means I'll have to read it, and I'm not reading it.。
So I'll just let the English book lie on the floor peacefully,。
and I'll just detour around it.。
And lucky for me to start teaching English for 10 years in my past 10 years.。
So well done, students.。
Another surprising thing about me is that sometimes I listen to really loud music to relax.。
I find that the louder and more upbeat the music is, the more calming it is for me.。
Like it feels so calm when I just hear music blasting in my ear.。
I don't know. Did anyone of that find loud music calming?。
Awesome. Good, good. Yeah, right?。
Another interesting thing about me, well, my friends find about me is that I'm good at connecting with people now.。
I have an ex-colleague/friend who was quite surprised that I can actually talk to strangers now when I meet new people.。
The last time she saw me on my IG Reels talking about the friends that I met in Australia,。
and then she met me and she goes, "Joon, you made friends in Australia?"。
I'm like, "Yeah."。
And I've been friends with her for over 10 years.。
And I've met her not only, not like, oh, I've met her once every five months.。
No, I meet her every single day when we were at work.。
Even though I left the place that we worked together, I still meet her like once or twice every week.。
And she still finds me surprising that I can make friends and connect with people now.。
Maybe that's because we've been friends for so long that we've stopped thinking or knowing about each other.。
We've stopped knowing anything fresh or the small changes that happens in us every day.。
We all need fresh encounters in our relationships, whether it is with our friends that we've known for a long time,。
our spouse, or even with God.。
Maybe you have been a Christian for a long time,。
and seeking fresh encounter with Jesus is something that you've always thought, you've always wanted.。
You've known Jesus for a long time, and then the more that you know him,。
the more that you come to church to listen to sermons and read the Bible, and you go, "Yeah."。
Whenever June talked about the five fish and the two loaves, I know what she's going to talk about.。
Or you open up the Bible and you read Psalms 1, and you go, "I know exactly how this is going to be.。
This is another story that I've learned since I was in kids' ministry."。
And you need that fresh encounter, and you just don't know how to get it or where to begin.。
I hope that this message speaks to you about how to journey through those moments and find fresh encounter with Jesus.。
Maybe you are just a new Christian or not yet a Christian, but you have made assumptions with,。
"You know, I think God is like that. I've heard that God looks like that, or Jesus is like that."。
And you kind of need someone to tell you who Jesus is through his word.。
And I hope that this message is going to shine some light on you to show you a pathway of how I did it when I was young。
and how I do it when I was walking through some ups and downs when I connect with the word of God.。
As I was praying for the sermon, I feel that God is saying that last week, since last week, it is an important week for all of us。
because we just came out of a 21-day fast. And in those 21 days, as a church, we fasted from things that were distracting us from God.。
Maybe things that we eat, maybe constantly thinking about what to eat next. That's kind of like my life.。
Or maybe you were watching Netflix, and you fasted from Netflix, and you carved out time to be with God, to pray and to read.。
And every day, the church would send out devotionals, sharings from people about how they encounter God.。
And there would be scriptures and questions that came out of the sharing.。
And then, wow, every single morning, I just look forward to the sharings that I'm going to read。
and the questions that really helped me to respond to or think about my life or think about how I start that morning.。
But then last week, I woke up, and there's nothing. I'm like, "Chapman, where's the sharing?"。
I wanted to text him that. I didn't. Because there's no more sharing from other people telling me how they encountered Jesus' life.。
All I have is the scriptures in my hands right now that I have to wrestle with, that I have to sit with to encounter Jesus on my own.。
So this week, I hope that as we just came out of the fast, that we're able to, still as a church, continue our connection with God,。
continue our walk with God, not from other people's help, not through other people's encounter, but our own fresh encounter with Jesus.。
So today, let's begin our fresh encounter with Him through His Word.。
The Word is His revelation to us. It is wonderful and precious and a joy to read.。
Should it be, isn't it? But that's not how I felt at the very beginning.。
When I first began reading the Bible, I find life's big questions that I can answer, give answers to, how I live my life,。
and give me the positive energy that I need to live my life.。
But that kind of, that way of describing the Bible kind of threw me off a bit.。
Because there are two kinds of people. There's one kind that can follow instructions really well, and there's this one kind that can't.。
And I'm definitely the kind that struggles with it.。
Let me tell you, when I first arrived in Australia a few years ago, the first task I, after I put down my luggage in my shared room, was to build the Ikea bed.。
It was the hardest thing for me to do.。
I was exhausted after my 10-hour red-eye flight, and when I opened the manual, I could not, for the life, for the sake of my life, put it together.。
I couldn't understand the pictures. I mixed up the screw sizes, and I just don't think the instructions work at all.。
Can you put the Ikea bed together? Like, no, I can't. I come from Hong Kong. I'm like, I can't put this together where I'm sleeping tonight.。
And when I read the Bible as the manual or instructions for my life, that's how I feel too.。
Often when I turn to the Bible for instructions, I'm already at my wit's end.。
I must have been, you know, looking and searching for how to solve my life's problem, and reading the Bible is my last resort, so I'm probably overwhelmed and sad and exhausted.。
And then when I read the Bible, I feel the instructions are so out of date and not related to my current situation.。
Which verse in the Bible tells me if I should accept the job offer?。
How do I make sense of the instructions? Invest in seven ventures, yes in eight.。
You know, what does that mean?。
And let alone the boring incidents about how Israel was split into two, and the mystical book of the Revelations.。
Because of these obstacles, reading the Bible seemed like a chore.。
I thought to be a good Christian, which I wanted to be a good Christian, I have to read the Bible and pray.。
But the struggles and obstacles made it hard for me to even open the Bible.。
The words seemed mundane and boring.。
I felt nothing when I read, and it seems like work.。
All these made it hard for me to connect with the Bible, let alone seeing God through it.。
I don't know if you resonate with what I was going through back then.。
Maybe you're just starting the Bible reading journey, and the book seems so daunting to you, and you just don't know where to begin.。
I remember when I first got baptized and everyone gave me Bibles, and it was this big, and the paper was so thin and so full of words.。
Where do I begin? And I vowed, okay, I'm going to read through the Bible from the first book to the last book, but then I got stuck at Leviticus.。
I just couldn't get out of it. Like, I'm sorry.。
Maybe you've been a seasoned Christian, and there are times in your life you felt stagnant in your Bible reading.。
Or that the Bible reading has been a habit, and you feel like there's no new stories or parables that you have not read.。
You wish to go deeper into your reading.。
You long for a fresh encounter with Jesus through His words.。
And what does it mean to have a fresh encounter with Jesus?。
Because I've known Jesus for 20 or 30 plus years.。
What does it mean to have a fresh encounter with Jesus?。
To have a deeply rooted, evergreen, fruit-producing life like the poet described in Psalms 1.。
Let me take you to the book of Luke, to an account that can help us to find some answers to our questions.。
So the story is from Luke chapter 24, and here in the story, Jesus has just been crucified.。
Now, there are rumors that Jesus was risen from the dead, and a couple on the way to Emmaus had a fresh encounter with Jesus.。
Let's have a look at their experience.。
So verse 13.。
Now, the same day, two of them were going to a village called Emmaus, about seven miles from Jerusalem.。
They were talking with each other about everything that had happened.。
As they talked and discussed these things with each other, Jesus Himself came up and walked along with them.。
But they were kept from recognizing Him.。
He asked them, "What are you discussing together as you walk along?"。
They stood still, their faces downcast.。
One of them, named Cleopas, asked Him,。
"Are you the only one visiting Jerusalem who does not know the things that have happened there in these days?"。
"What things?" Jesus asked.。
There were two people on the way to Emmaus.。
We don't know too much about these two people, but there are a few things we know.。
They were among the group of followers of Jesus.。
And on that day, the day that Mary Magdalene and other women found out that Jesus had risen,。
they were walking to Emmaus.。
They had heard about Jesus' risen, but their reaction was different from what we would have expected.。
They had heard from the woman, they had heard from the disciples, but they were still downcast.。
The Bible said they were kept from recognizing Jesus.。
Yes, physically, they were kept from recognizing Him.。
They did not know that the man who was walking towards them, who was talking to them,。
was the Jesus that they were pining for.。
But I doubt if they know who Jesus was before He hung on the cross,。
that they still don't know who He truly is.。
Let's listen to how they described Jesus to Jesus.。
"About Jesus of Nazareth," they replied,。
"He was a prophet, powerful indeed before God and all the people.。
And the chief priests and all rulers handed Him over to be sentenced to death, and they crucified Him.。
But we had hoped that He was the one who was going to redeem Israel."。
They had followed Jesus.。
They've heard about what He's done.。
Maybe they have even witnessed some of His miracles.。
They had hoped that He was the one to redeem Israel.。
However, not only physically they could not recognize Jesus,。
they probably had the wrong idea of Him,。
that they couldn't recognize Him from who He truly is.。
In the Scripture, it says they had hoped that He was the one who would redeem Israel.。
This implies that Jesus' death put a stop to everything.。
He cannot be the Savior of Israel because who could save Israel if He is now dead?。
Their past knowledge and experience has blocked them away,。
has blocked them from knowing who Jesus is.。
And when things didn't happen according to their plan,。
they got disappointed, confused, and walked away.。
That could be us, couldn't it?。
Maybe we have known Jesus for a while.。
We've read books about Him, listened to sermons about Him,。
and met with Him back in the day.。
And we thought we had enough information about Him.。
So we have our own experience about Him and who He is and what He's going to do.。
And so we pray and ask Him to do things according to our own plan。
and our own understanding of Him.。
Jesus could have left them alone.。
At the end of the day, there were only two of the followers,。
out of the many, that had the wrong expectation of Him.。
They weren't recorded in the Bible afterwards.。
So Jesus could have just left them alone and gone to some more other impactful followers。
who could do something and change their life and so on.。
But yet, Jesus came up to them.。
Jesus knew they needed a fresh encounter of Him, to know Him afresh,。
regardless of who they are and what they can do.。
He met them where they were at, disappointed, confused, overwhelmed.。
He concealed to them who He was and showed them through Scripture who He really is,。
because Jesus knew they needed Him to understand His words.。
Let's look at verse 27.。
It says, "And beginning with Moses and all the prophets,。
He explained to them what was said in all the Scriptures concerning Himself."。
Jesus could have met them in other ways.。
He showed Thomas' wounds.。
He cooked fish for Peter.。
But to these two on the road to Emmaus,。
He opened up the Scriptures to them, showing them who He really is.。
He is the one that they have been reading about, but they didn't get.。
He is the one that they were waiting for, that they have missed.。
Maybe they were disappointed that through all those years,。
even though they have been looking meticulously over the Scriptures,。
looking for signs and wonders and clues about Him,。
but they still didn't get who He is.。
Jesus is telling the couple and to us that He can be found in the Scriptures,。
that everything in the Scriptures points to Him.。
The couple could see it in the past, but now they understand.。
This is a fresh encounter for the couple.。
They probably have been memorizing Scriptures for their whole lives.。
They have been to synagogue week in and week out,。
asking questions about the Scriptures, looking for and waiting for Him as they do.。
But they were never sure about who the Messiah was.。
But now, now it is different.。
Now their minds are opened and they can understand what it truly means.。
How exciting is that?。
No wonder the couple said to each other,。
"Were it not our hearts burning within us while He talked with us on the road。
and opened the Scriptures to us?"。
"Weren't our hearts burning within us?"。
The revelation of who Jesus is, the Eureka moment,。
where we understand what He is talking about, sets fire in our hearts.。
Do you remember the time when you were a little kid。
and you were given a really difficult math question?。
And you tried this way and that way and it still didn't work.。
But then suddenly in that moment, you understand how to solve the problem,。
that joy in your heart.。
And maybe there was this one time when you were trying to read。
and the sentences doesn't make sense to you.。
And you go and ask your teacher and she explains to you。
what's the underlying meaning of the story。
and who actually the story was pointing to.。
And you had this sudden realization that the story itself has a bigger meaning behind it.。
And you go, "Oh, that's what the story means."。
That joy that you have, that Eureka moment that you have.。
Jesus is telling us that we can find the same feeling,。
the same burning in our hearts through the Scriptures。
because the whole of the Scripture is pointed to Him.。
When the Bible is interpreted in the light of Jesus,。
inspired by the Holy Spirit,。
it has a remarkable power to speak directly and personally into our lives.。
Like the couple on the Emmaus Road,。
we will sometimes find our hearts burning within us。
as the Lord reveals Himself to us through the Bible.。
I believe that Jesus wants to do for you precisely。
what He did for that couple on the Emmaus Road.。
His nature hasn't changed.。
Ask and He will draw alongside you,。
just like how He drew alongside them,。
to open the Scriptures for you as He did for them.。
Until your heart, like theirs, begins to burn.。
The couple on the Emmaus Road draws a beautiful picture。
of a fresh encounter with Jesus through God's words,。
a fresh revelation of who He is,。
having Him speak specifically and personally to them.。
With that said, there have been so many discouraging moments。
where I struggle with the Word of God。
that I felt I get nothing out of reading the Bible.。
I felt that God wasn't speaking to me。
and I didn't get my questions answered.。
I didn't understand what He was trying to say.。
It was then I realized there were too many "I's" in my sentences.。
Just like reading from the IKEA manual,。
I was trying to get something done from reading it.。
I wasn't reading the Bible to get to know Him.。
I read the Bible with my personal agenda.。
Intimacy isn't built on getting my way.。
It is about getting to know the other.。
Am I listening to what He's saying on His terms?。
Or am I restricting Him to only answer to my worries and my questions?。
I've been putting burdens on my Bible reading.。
I put on the burden of wanting to get something out of reading the Bible.。
I put on the burden of forcing myself to understand every single detail.。
And I put on the burden that it depends on me to like reading the Bible.。
And if I don't, I fail.。
But all God wants for us is to be with Him.。
Is to sit by His feet, empty-handed,。
and just ask God to speak to us.。
To challenge us, to surrender to what He wants to do with our time.。
Hebrews 4, verse 12 reminds us that。
the Word of God is alive and active,。
sharper than any double-edged sword.。
It penetrates even to dividing soul and spirit, joints and marrow.。
It judges the thoughts and attitudes of the heart.。
The power of His Word doesn't depend on my intelligence, my preference or maturity.。
It depends on my consistency to be near Him.。
To give Him the time and space to speak to me through His words.。
Let me say that again.。
It depends on my consistency to be near Him.。
Give Him the time and the space to speak to me.。
I remember there was a period of time when I was quite depressed in Australia.。
I cut myself off from friends and I would stay in my room all day.。
And had no motivation in life, let alone getting out of bed.。
I did not know what was the matter with me and I just lost all joy.。
My friends were obviously worried and tried to get me out of my shell,。
but I find that stressful and tiring.。
Through those times, I still kept reading the Bible.。
Though my social energy was low,。
I found the peaceful presence of just reading through the Psalms.。
In a time when I don't even know what happened to me or how I could get out of it,。
the Word seems to be washing and cleansing my heart a little bit every day.。
Then one day as I was reading through the Romans, a verse struck me.。
"The mind governed by the flesh is death, but the mind governed by the Spirit is life and peace."。
It was a verse that I've read before, but never has it been highlighted to me that way.。
I felt like it was both comforting and disciplining me at the same time.。
I do have the Spirit in me since it was there.。
It will bring me peace and joy, things that I felt was missing in my life.。
I do not need to look for it, bend over my knees to beg for it.。
It is there for me by the Holy Spirit.。
But have I been governed by the Holy Spirit?。
Have I been letting Him take hold of me and to guide me in my everyday decision?。
Or have I been letting myself go, letting my emotions decide what I think my future holds?。
I kept reciting this verse every day in various ways too, writing it out, thinking about it as I go to work,。
thinking about what I've been governed by and what is governed by it means.。
And soon things started moving.。
As someone says, "It is blessed to meditate on His Word."。
Reading it and thinking about it in my quiet time is great,。
but having a phrase to meditate on throughout my day helps the Word to take root in my heart.。
Meditate on it, ask questions about it, and wrestle with it, create moments for God to speak to me.。
Looking back, I think so much was at work there.。
God highlighting the verse to me, the Holy Spirit working in me,。
and I placed myself under the Word of God to believe in it despite feeling sad and rotten.。
The Word of God is alive and active.。
Since then, Bible reading has changed for me because after that period of time,。
I know that God's Word is effective and it can be activated in my life,。
whether I understand how it works or not, or whether I feel that it is working or not.。
Because it is the Holy Spirit who leads me to the truth and opens my mind to understand His Word.。
It does not mean that I don't struggle with connecting with His Word at times,。
but I learn how to journey through it.。
To think about it, no author would write himself into the story.。
Scrooge does not know about Charles Dickens, nor Juliet knows who Shakespeare is.。
But our Heavenly Father reveals Himself to us through the Bible.。
How precious is that?。
Just think about it for a moment.。
God wants us to know Him. He wants us to know Him.。
He wants us to know His plans.。
He wants us to know that He loves us and He has a plan for us,。
and He is assuring us that there is a way out in our lives.。
He's not testing our knowledge with the Bible.。
He's showing me through the record of His Word that He is sovereign of us all.。
The Word that He has said still holds power in my life today.。
He spoke, and the Word was created.。
He spoke, and the Son was created, and then the Son is still shining today.。
The season is still changing.。
The Word that He spoke thousands and millions of years ago is still powerful and at work today.。
And so just read about it.。
Know what He wants for your life, and know that this is working for you in your life。
through the Bible that He's telling us.。
One of my habits of reading the Bible is through journaling.。
I know that as I put pen to paper, the fleeting thoughts and feelings were articulated and named,。
and I can hand them back to my father for further conversation.。
Journaling slowed me down and got me to take each verse as I write seriously.。
Maybe you haven't tried journaling before and you want to give it a go,。
so let me share with you what I do.。
I start by sitting and quieting myself down.。
Maybe I was rushing in the morning to get myself ready.。
Maybe I was trying to catch the bus in the morning, and so my mind would be everywhere.。
But this slowing and calming down and just not thinking about anything really helped me focus.。
You know, reading the Bible doesn't have to be, "Okay, it's time to study my English."。
It's about your moment with God, and you just need to create that mind, that mindset in your head。
and go, "Okay, let me slow down."。
I don't have to think about anything.。
I can let my mind go blank and just say, "Thank you, Jesus. You're here."。
And I pray to ask the Holy Spirit to illuminate the words to me。
because I know that from the story of Emmaus, reading the Bible is not about me reading it.。
It's about the Holy Spirit talking to me, showing me what He wants to tell me today.。
And so it's not about reading a lot of scriptures.。
I have to cover the whole Bible in a year, so I have to rush through a chapter every day.。
I just—maybe it's about one or two verses, maybe one psalm, maybe just one psalm.。
And as I read, there would be phrases that stuck out to me,。
and I just start writing and copying that verse out.。
When I start journaling, I won't wait for the whole idea to develop before I write,。
but I start writing and let the Holy Spirit lead me.。
One time when I was reading Romans 8.27—it's Romans again, but it's really one of my favorite books.。
I was reading Romans 8.27, and I stopped at the phrase, "He who searches my heart," or our hearts,。
"He who searches our hearts," because it struck me, right?。
So I just wrote it on my journal, and then I continued to write the following.。
I felt that there are many layers in my heart.。
At the top, it holds all the weaknesses and wrongs that I know I have, and the thoughts I try to hide,。
and then the condemnation that follows it.。
But underneath that, I see the layers of hurt, the brokenness, and the disappointment.。
God doesn't just stop at the first layer.。
He searches my heart. He searches through all those layers.。
He knows that through the weaknesses or the sin that I made at the top,。
there's this brokenness in me, there's this weakness in me, and He has compassion for me,。
and He will intercede for me.。
I didn't come up with this thought, but it just flows as I copy the phrases.。
You'll be surprised by the thought that you actually have when you start writing.。
It's always refreshing to try different ways to read the Word.。
I do it through journaling. My friends would listen to it meditatively,。
and I've also been listening to it while I get my morning ready.。
But letting the Word sink into our hearts and thinking about it throughout the day。
really helps to create that space for you to meet with God.。
On the welcome table, you can find pamphlets about hearing the Word campaign.。
I don't have it right now. I hold on to it the whole morning, and now it's not here.。
But on the welcome table, there's actually this Hearing the Word campaign.。
It is a Hong Kong-wide event where they planned a 47-day listening plan for the Book of Matthews.。
You can find more information about it after the service.。
But obviously, it is important to read the Word in our own time.。
It is also important to read the Word together in a community.。
I love how last Sunday so many of us gathered together to have lunch together,。
to connect with each other, and to hang out.。
That's the start of building relationships where we get to know each other's names,。
their likes and dislikes, their hobbies, and all of that.。
However, to be a community of faith, it is also important to read and discuss God's Word together.。
We share about a week, but also encourage each other through God's words.。
We discuss and grow together in unity as we listen to insights that each group member brings.。
We allow the truth from the Scripture to unite us together and encourage each other to be consistent in our reading.。
God's Word is the primary way that God has chosen to make himself known to us.。
So even if we want to know God, we cannot give up on God's Word.。
Yes, it might be a struggle, or we need to learn how to encounter God through his words,。
but God loves revealing himself to us.。
There's a whole book about him that we can read about.。
He loves to speak to us personally through his Word and making himself known,。
just like he did to me when I was struggling.。
So let me end with two encouragements.。
For one, join a community group and learn with others how to read the Word.。
And secondly, carve out time to read a short passage of God's words.。
Ask God to reveal himself to you through his Word.。
Pay attention to what stands out, sit with that,。
and ask God to clarify what he might be saying to you through his Word.。
God loves revealing himself, so we can be confident。
when we ask him in prayer that he will.。
I would love to pray over us, so would you all please stand and the worship team can come forward.。
Maybe you are feeling stagnant in your Bible reading.。
Maybe there were a lot of guilt that you carried when you read the Bible。
and you don't like reading it, and there's a lot of burden that you've put on yourself.。
And I'd just like to pray for you.。
I'd like to pray for us to meet God afresh, to cast all the burdens on him,。
and just come to enjoy his Word with us together.。
So let us pray.。
Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you that you reveal yourself to us through your words.。
We thank you that we're able to encounter you through the Scriptures that you have given us.。
We also cry out to you that there are times when we don't understand you,。
when it's been a struggle to read your words,。
and there are burdens that come along with it when I don't understand what you are talking about.。
And so we pray, we pray that this is not your heart to have guilt and burden when reading your Word,。
that through your power, help us to cast these worries and burdens aside,。
and help us to enjoy just spending time with you, reading about you.。
You tell us that you are love.。
You tell us that through your words that you come to save,。
that through your words, there's redemption and peace and life.。
And we just want to come to you afresh today.。
We want to seek you through your words.。
We are not satisfied with how we're reading,。
but we want to go deeper and read more about who you are.。
And so God, please come and speak to us through your words.。
Come and let us encounter you afresh.。
We want to know who you really are, who you really, really are.。
Thank you, God, that you love us and you meet us where we are at.。
Thank you, God, even though we don't understand,。
you still come up to show us who you are.。
Thank you that you give us your Word.。
In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.。
[music]。
Sing, "Christ is our portion."。
Christ is our portion.。
Christ, our devotion.。
Christ is the center of our lives.。
He is our obsession.。
He is our confession.。
Christ is the center of our lives.。
Sing it again.。
Christ is our portion.。
Yes, he is our devotion.。
Christ is the center of our lives.。
He is our obsession.。
He is our confession.。
Christ is the center of our lives.。
As for me in this house.。
As for me in this house, we will serve you, glorify you.。
Let it be in this house that we love you and obey you.。
You are Lord of this house.。
You're the first and you're the only.。
In the midst of us now, you are holy.。
You are worthy.。
Christ is our portion.。
Christ, our devotion.。
Christ is the center of our lives.。
He is our obsession.。
He is our confession.。
Christ is the center of our lives.。
And oh, all that matters.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
Yes, Lord.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
All that matters, Jesus.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
Nothing else matters, Jesus.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
And oh, all that matters now is you.。
You're the only one.。
You're the reason God is good.。
You're the season power.。
You're the only one.。
You're the only one.。
You're the reason God is good.。
Oh, there's nothing better than you, oh, my love.。
Oh, there's nothing, oh, nothing is better than you.。
Better than you.。
There's nothing, oh.。
Oh, there's nothing, nothing is better than you.。
Oh, no, it's true.。
Yes, I know it's true.。
There's nothing that's better than you.。
Yes, I know it's true.。
There's nothing that's better than you.。
Oh.。
[music playing]。
[music playing]。
(fart noise)。
