Yeah, I bring greetings from everybody in Wan Chai.。
They are so excited about what's happening here.。
And we often talk about you over there in Wan Chai。
and just grateful for the way in which the church has grown.。
Today was actually a monumental moment in my ministry,。
sort of, I guess, history.。
I preached my very first sermon in Cantonese。
at the 9.30 service.。
The sermon was about a minute long。
because I exhausted all of my Cantonese in about 60 seconds.。
But I think it went pretty well.。
How did it go?。
What did you think?。
It was awesome.。
Awesome, there you go, all right.。
(laughing)。
Now, I have a little bit more English than I do Cantonese,。
so this sermon will not be a minute long.。
I apologize for that.。
But when Tim reached out and said,。
"Hey, I'd love you to come and speak.。
"We're doing a series on following Jesus,。
"what it means to follow Jesus."。
I was so excited.。
I gave my life to Jesus when I was 20 years old.。
So I've followed Jesus now, or tried to follow Jesus,。
been learning to follow Jesus for about 30 years now.。
And if you're anything like me,。
you've come to realize that following Jesus。
is a lifelong pursuit.。
It's not a easy thing all the time,。
but it leads you into the greatest experience。
of life that there is.。
But one of the things that I've recognized。
as I've been trying to follow Jesus。
is just the understanding that in doing that,。
I'm often called to live in a way。
that I was not expected to live.。
I love this moment in Matthew 16, verse 24,。
where Jesus says to his disciples,。
he says, "If you wanna follow after me,。
"here's what you need to do."。
He says, "You need to deny yourself,。
"pick up your cross, and then follow me."。
So if we have this question of。
what does it mean to follow Jesus,。
Jesus says to his disciples,。
teaches to his disciples the direct thing.。
He says, "Deny yourself, pick up your cross,。
"then you're following me."。
Now, I don't know about you,。
but I don't think this is what the disciples。
were hoping to hear when Jesus says,。
"Here's how you can live the best life," right?。
They weren't wanting to hear,。
"Deny yourself, pick up your cross,"。
which essentially was like, "Go to a place of death."。
That's not the kind of sort of life。
that they were hoping to sign up for.。
I think the disciples were hoping。
that Jesus was gonna say something like this,。
"Anybody who wants to come after me。
"is going to receive all of my blessings,。
"is gonna live an amazingly relaxed and easy life,。
"and I'm gonna follow them the rest of their lives."。
Like, I think for many of us,。
that's what we would love in our faith.。
That's kind of what we would love in our religion.。
If that was the reality,。
I think a lot of people would be。
wanting me to be a part of that.。
Like, could you imagine a God who is like,。
"You're gonna have every blessing for me every single day,。
"you're gonna have a perfect and easy life,。
"everything's gonna go well,。
"and I'm gonna dedicate myself to following you.。
"Like, I'm gonna be there with you every step of the way,。
"I'm gonna follow you and make everything awesome for you."。
I mean, if you told people that,。
they'd be like, "Where do I sign up for that?"。
But that's not what Jesus said.。
Jesus actually said the opposite.。
He said, "If you wanna know what following me is like,。
"here's what it's like.。
"You need to deny yourself, pick up your cross,。
"and then follow me."。
Jesus flips the script,。
which is kind of what Jesus does all the time.。
He actually introduces us to this beautiful,。
but challenging, counter-cultural nature。
of the kingdom of God.。
Counter-cultural, counter-intuitive at times,。
counter our expectations often.。
Now, the kind of life that we're called into。
is to discover the world as it was truly meant to be.。
And I think when Jesus says this to the disciples,。
"This is how I want you to live your life,"。
Jesus understands that the way in which。
we live our lives currently is not the way。
that we have been created to live.。
Jesus understood the reality of what sin had done。
in humanity, the reality of what sin was doing。
in the lives of people,。
and the ways in which we treated one another.。
And when people were like, "What do we do to follow you?"。
He's saying, "Okay, here's what it is.。
"We are so kind of overwhelmed by sin and by brokenness。
"that the way we're treating one another。
"and the way that we're living right now。
"does not reflect what I created you for,。
"nor what the world has been created for.。
"So in order for you to change yourself,。
"you're gonna have to literally go through a process。
"of your own death and resurrection."。
I mean, that's what he's saying.。
He's saying, "You wanna know what life is truly like?。
"In order to experience it, you're gonna have to go。
"through a death and resurrection.。
"You're gonna have to deny yourself, pick up your cross,。
"and then you will get to experience it."。
Jesus, I think, teaching this,。
as we die to the world around us。
and actually begin to live as Christ has called us to do,。
we actually then get to see the world。
as it was truly created to be.。
Like we begin to see the world differently.。
We begin to understand the world differently.。
We begin to have different desires。
than the ones that we used to have.。
We begin to see the world through the eyes and the lens。
and the heart and the character of Jesus.。
And we begin to see the world come alive。
like it had never come before.。
And Jesus is like, "I want you to experience。
"the world like that.。
"I want you to see the world how I see it.。
"I want you to live in the very way。
"that you've been created to be.。
"But just in the same way for me,。
"there was a death and resurrection。
"to shift the whole world into this new way of being.。
"So if you wanna follow me,。
"are you willing to go through your own death。
"and resurrection?"。
Death to the sin and the brokenness。
and resurrection into new life,。
thrilled with my spirit and my hope.。
Deny yourself, pick up your cross,。
and then you will follow me.。
This is the reality.。
A call to following Jesus。
is a call to living a radically new way of life。
that is the opposite。
to how the world currently presents itself to us.。
And when we do that and we do that well,。
it's like we give the world a glimpse。
of what heaven on earth looks like.。
Are you following this?。
This is what Jesus's heart is.。
He's like, "If you were to live that way,。
"this radically new way in the world right now,。
"you would begin to show the world。
"that there is a different way to live,。
"that there is another narrative。
"than the narrative of sin and death,。
"that there's another way of understanding this world,。
"and there's a way of seeing the world。
"in the way that it was really created to be,。
"a bit of heaven on earth."。
That prayer that he taught the disciples to pray.。
Pray this.。
Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be your name.。
Your kingdom come, your will be done。
on earth as it is in heaven.。
And when Jesus speaks to the disciples and says,。
"You wanna know what it's like to follow me?"。
It is like living in such a radically different way。
than you naturally want to live,。
that literally people see a bit of heaven on earth.。
That, my friends, is what the Beatitudes。
and the Sermon on the Mount are all about.。
When Jesus starts teaching the crowds。
and the disciples around him。
in that famous Sermon on the Mount,。
he starts by showing them a vision。
of what living could look like in his kingdom.。
And each of the Beatitudes are a statement from God。
of saying, "Those that live like this will experience this."。
And Chapman did a great job last week。
showing us what the first four of those Beatitudes are.。
And he spoke last week about how they help us。
to understand that vertical relationship。
that we have with God.。
And what we're gonna do today。
is we're gonna look at the next three that are there.。
And these three actually help us to begin to understand。
our horizontal relationship with one another.。
And before I open the passage, I wanna say this to you.。
What I'm gonna say today。
is gonna be incredibly challenging.。
Because Jesus does not hold back the punches。
in these three Beatitudes.。
He's dealt in the first four。
with how we can find that reconciliation,。
that new creation with him.。
But then he says,。
"The way you're treating one another is not right.。
"And those in my kingdom get to experience it like this."。
And when I read these three parables。
about this horizontal relationship with one another,。
I feel deeply challenged.。
'Cause I recognize that I don't naturally live like that.。
And I find that is a wonderful encouragement。
and an invitation to begin to think,。
do I want to live differently。
so that the world might see something different of God?。
Let me read these three parables to you.。
It's found in Matthew 5,。
and we're gonna start in verse seven.。
Listen to this.。
Blessed are the merciful, for they will be shown mercy.。
Blessed are the pure in heart, for they will see God.。
Blessed are the peacemakers,。
for they will be called children of God.。
Just stop for a moment。
and take a look at these three side by side.。
Blessed are the merciful, for they will be shown mercy.。
I don't know when the last time was。
that I felt naturally to be merciful.。
In fact, I find a lot easy to hold onto grudges。
and hold onto unforgiveness and find bitterness within me.。
Blessed are the pure in heart.。
I don't know when the last time was。
that I naturally felt pure in heart towards people.。
In fact, I harbor mixed motives often.。
And I look at people and I judge them for who they are。
or maybe for the way they look or the way they act.。
And I find all those things wrestling inside of me.。
Blessed are the peacemakers.。
I don't know when the last time was。
that I felt naturally wanting to just put everybody。
into a beautiful place of peace.。
Actually, I quite like holding onto the fact。
that I'm right and they're wrong.。
And I find I read these three things。
and I find that there's a challenge within them。
so beautifully.。
And it's almost like Jesus is trying to bring。
that challenge 'cause he's like saying,。
"I'm so tired of how people hold onto unforgiveness.。
"I'm so tired that people expect to be treated。
"how they treat people.。
"I'm so tired by this reality that we do judge。
"and we are cynical towards one another。
"and we look at one another。
"and we cast each other into doubt。
"or we have this sort of judgment in our heart.。
"I am sad.。
"I find it frustrating that so many people。
"would rather be divided than united,。
"hold onto their truth at the expense of somebody else.。
"Like this is not the way that I created you to be.。
"I created you to be different from this.。
"I created you to live in such a way。
"that in living so differently。
"to how everybody else is living around you,。
"people will lean into that and say,。
"I wanna be a bit like that.。
"I wanna see that.。
"I want to also be like that."。
So Jesus brings these three challenging parables。
next to each other and he says,。
"This is what it is."。
These beatitudes of this great picture。
of the kingdom of God and he says,。
"Will you live like this?"。
And we could spend a lot of time on them。
but I wanna jump to,。
as I was praying for us here this morning actually,。
I was asking the Lord and saying,。
"Which of these is the most important?。
"Which are the ones that we should really lean into,。
"unpack in detail?"。
I felt the Holy Spirit lead me to the final one,。
"The blessed are the peacemakers。
"for they will be known as children of God."。
And I thought to myself, this is so important。
because I think if there's anything。
in terms of how we're treating one another。
that the world is broken in right now,。
it's this idea of division.。
I don't know if you've noticed this。
but the world is more divided than it has ever been.。
That there seems to be this rising rhetoric。
around our world about division。
and about turning on others,。
about bringing people away from one another。
rather than trying to bring people together.。
And this is happening,。
this division at every level of society.。
I mean, think about it on a geopolitical level.。
I don't know if you followed all the news in Davos。
this past week but there's a group of people。
that are trying to create a brand new world order。
that will benefit them at the expense of others.。
I don't know if you've seen some of the rhetoric。
that is coming out of some of our global leaders。
at the moment, rhetoric which basically says,。
this is for us and not for the other.。
World nations are pushing against each other。
more and more than ever before.。
Caesar-like leaders are creating empires。
and determining who should be in and who should be out.。
And you see this happening on a global level。
and you begin to wonder what is going on.。
But then you take it to the city-wide level。
and you take a look at what's happening。
even here in Hong Kong.。
I don't know if you realize this。
but latest statistics would show。
that the wealthier are getting wealthier in our city。
and the poorer are getting poorer.。
There's a growing division between the classes in our city.。
There's a growing division in Hong Kong。
between the ethnic groups in our city as well.。
In fact, some of the latest reports that have come out。
have suggested that there is a racism。
towards certain ethnic groups in our city。
that has raised itself more in the last five years.。
And then if you take a look at some of the political things。
that are happening, not just here in Hong Kong。
but around our region,。
families are still being divided in our city。
around political lines, around thoughts of that.。
We're seeing more division in Hong Kong than ever before.。
That's not the Hong Kong that I think Jesus died for.。
And then what about the family level?。
Again, don't know if you're aware。
but there are more divorces in our city。
recorded than ever before.。
There's a brokenness at the family level。
that we need to be aware of, a division that has come.。
There are more people where the parents。
are not talking to the children。
and the children are not talking to the parents.。
I work for a charity, I'm on the board of a charity。
that works with children here in Hong Kong.。
And again, I don't know if you recognize this。
but there is more child abuse in our city。
and there's more child abuse being recorded。
in our city than ever before.。
There's more child abandonment in our city。
than ever before.。
This is the family unit getting broken and divided.。
But then take it down to that personal level,。
the level that you and I are at each individually.。
And you take a look at our social media feeds。
and the reality of the algorithms that derive those feeds。
which don't drive them to unite but drive them to separate.。
The echo chambers that are created by what we like。
and listen to and watch and whatever.。
And then our feeds getting flooded with things like that。
which often divides us from those around us。
that might have different perspectives,。
different opinions or even live in a different culture。
or in a different way.。
Even on the individual level,。
we're becoming more and more divided.。
So whether it's geopolitically,。
whether it's within our city,。
whether it's our families, whether it's in ourselves,。
we're in this divided time and you see that。
and we should be asking as Christians,。
surely there's a better way to live.。
And Jesus says, yes, there is, but it's a hard path.。
It's a narrow path.。
It's a challenging one, but do you wanna know what it is?。
Let me read it to you one more time.。
It says Matthew 5 verse nine.。
Blessed are the peacemakers,。
for they will be called children of God.。
It's interesting what Jesus does here.。
In all of the Beatitudes up until this point,。
Jesus has had a formula in presenting the Beatitudes.。
So he presents something and then he presents。
what that thing will get, what they will receive.。
So he says, blessed are the poor in spirit,。
for they will receive the kingdom of God.。
He says then blessed are those who mourn,。
for they will receive comfort.。
He says, blessed are the meek,。
for they will inherit the earth.。
Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness,。
for they will be filled.。
Blessed are the merciful, so they will get mercy.。
And he goes through all this list。
and it's always blessed are this。
and here's what they're gonna receive.。
So when he gets the blessed are the peacemakers,。
if you're following the formula,。
what you expect Jesus to say is this,。
blessed are the peacemakers, for they will know peace.。
They will receive peace, but that's not what he says.。
In fact, he breaks formula at this point。
because I think he has something really important。
to teach his people.。
He says differently, he says, blessed are the peacemakers,。
for they will be called children of God.。
They don't receive something, they get labeled as something.。
They get a change, if you will, in status.。
People will see the peacemakers。
and they will come to see them as people who know me.。
Now this is really important that we understand this.。
What Jesus is not teaching here。
is if you become a peacemaker,。
then you'll get entry into my family。
and I'll call you a child of God.。
We know that that's not the way it works.。
We know that we enter into being a part of the family of God。
not through our effort, not through what we earn,。
but through the grace that comes。
through the work of Jesus on the cross, amen?。
So we're saved into relationship,。
into the family of God through that grace.。
In fact, let me just read this to you in John chapter one.。
I love how John chapter one captures it.。
It says, yet all those who received him, this is Jesus,。
to those who believed in his name,。
he gave the right to become children of God.。
So our status as children of God is a right given to us,。
not because we earn it, but because we believe,。
because we've repented of our sins,。
we've come into belief of Jesus,。
he's forgiven those sins,。
and we are now a part of his family.。
We are saved by grace through faith, amen?。
So when Jesus says, blessed are the peacemakers,。
for they will be called children of God,。
he's not going against the wider teaching。
of salvation in scripture here.。
He's not saying do this and then you will become this.。
Here's what he's saying, it's actually the opposite.。
He's saying, as you become people。
who make peace in this world,。
people will see that and go, wow,。
those must be people of God.。
They must be God's people.。
They must be God's children,。
because I know naturally that's not what I wanna do.。
I know naturally I wanna harbor bitterness.。
I know naturally I wanna be angry.。
I know naturally I'd rather be with my own tribe.。
I know naturally that my sin drives me。
to divide and not to unite.。
So when we see people doing it differently,。
people stand back and go, hang on a sec.。
How come they're like that,。
whereas I feel like I'm like this?。
And I think God stands back,。
and when he sees his church,。
when he sees people that he knows, believes in him,。
begin to live out a peacemaking lifestyle,。
he goes, that's my boy.。
That's my girl.。
Those are my kids.。
These are my children.。
They are revealing to the world。
something that is inherent in my character and my nature,。
and that is to bring reconciliation。
to the things that are divided.。
And when we as the church act that way,。
when we embrace that character ourselves,。
when we begin to live that out before the world,。
people see something different,。
and they begin to ask those critical questions.。
Why are they like that?。
Blessed are the peacemakers,。
for they will be called children of God.。
Now, if that's all true,。
then here's something I think we have to deeply wrestle with.。
Are we proving to be the children of God。
in the world's most important hour。
where it needs it the most?。
'Cause if it's true that there is division。
at all elements of society,。
and we're seeing some of that division in our city。
like never before,。
the question I think God has for the church is,。
are we proving ourselves to be the children of God。
in a time when the world needs to see those children。
more than ever before?。
Is the church standing up,。
or is the church shrinking back?。
And when we sort of sit with this,。
we begin to recognize that what Jesus has to say here。
is not just important on an individual level,。
it's important throughout the whole of the structures。
of what society has created.。
Could it be that the renewal of all things。
sits on those who call themselves the children of God?。
Now, I wanna unpack for you。
what I think Jesus is trying to say。
about how we live as peacemakers。
by telling you what Jesus didn't say in this passage, okay?。
Here's what Jesus didn't say.。
He didn't say, "Blessed are the peacekeepers,。
"for they will be known as the children of God."。
Peacekeepers are those who will avoid conflict at all costs,。
who will do whatever they can。
to move away from the reality of a conflict,。
who will sweep anything under the rug,。
do any sort of compromise just to ensure that peace remains.。
They avoid conflict, avoid hard conversations,。
compromise their values just in order。
that there is no one to be upset or distressed.。
My wife's sitting here in the front row,。
and she will know that I am a peacekeeper。
in my personality and who I am.。
She will tell you that oftentimes,。
if we get into a bit of an argument,。
I'm the one who's sweeping stuff under the rug.。
I'm the one who's trying to quell everything。
and make everything nice and peaceful.。
I will say whatever it takes。
to make things peaceful in the house again。
because I hate conflict.。
I find it stressful.。
I want to avoid it at all costs.。
And here's what peacekeepers do.。
They create a false peace.。
Well, we're just not gonna talk about those issues.。
Oh, no, no, no, it's okay.。
Let's just pretend like we get along together.。
Let's just kind of ignore the reality。
that some really hard conversations,。
that we've really hurt each other.。
Let's not talk about any of that.。
Let's just pretend like everything's good.。
And if we could pretend like everything's good,。
we'll feel like we've got peace.。
This is very dangerous.。
And I think if I'm honest,。
I think there's been some times。
in Hong Kong's recent history。
where perhaps there's been a false peace created。
and not a true peace.。
When we ignore the realities of what's there。
that needs to be dealt with,。
whether in our families, whether individually,。
or whether in our society as a whole,。
we are ending up basically trying to keep peace。
at the expense of real peace.。
Are you with me?。
See, Jesus didn't say, "Blessed are the peacekeepers.。
"They will be children of God."。
Jesus offers a different path.。
If you look at the way that Jesus operated。
in this area of peacemaking,。
He was not a peacekeeper.。
In fact, Jesus in creating peace,。
He wasn't one who embraced sort of self-ignorance。
or avoidant behavior.。
Jesus walked right into conflict。
and healed it from the inside out。
through sacrifice and hardship.。
I mean, look at every single time。
that Jesus brings people together.。
Every single time that Jesus does something。
that brings peace on earth,。
the ultimate obviously being the cross,。
which we'll talk more about in a moment.。
Every single one of them,。
Jesus steps into the midst of a conflict,。
braves difficult and hard conversations,。
heals it from within through sacrifice and hardship.。
That's who He is.。
He doesn't say, "Blessed are the peacekeepers,"。
but, "Blessed are the peacemakers."。
He also didn't say this, "Blessed are the peace lovers,。
"for they will be the children of God."。
Now, that would be great.。
Everybody loves the idea of peace.。
Everybody loves the values of peace.。
Everybody loves to talk about peace.。
Everybody loves to tweet or to post on their IG。
something that is peaceful or might bring peace.。
Everybody loves to have the idea or the concept。
or the thought of peace,。
but not that many people are actually willing。
to work for peace,。
who are actually willing to do the hard yards。
in the area of peace,。
who is able to have that hard conversation,。
do some truth speaking,。
call people to repentance,。
whatever it might be to do the work,。
the deep and important work of peace.。
There are many that won't do that.。
And instead, we're just happy to be a peace lover。
or make other people think that we love peace,。
but not actually embrace peace the way it truly is.。
And Jesus says that actually that's not the way.。
The word He chooses here, interestingly, for peacemaker。
is a unique Greek word.。
It's only used in this one instant。
in the whole of the New Testament.。
It's an action word,。
and it means a lifestyle of action.。
So this is not just have a nice idea of what peace is。
and proclaim some theory.。
This is like dedicate your life to living this out.。
So He didn't say blessed are the peace lovers.。
Finally, He also didn't say blessed,。
and this is a good one,。
blessed are the peace achievers,。
for they will be known as the children of God.。
I'm really grateful for this one。
'cause I don't know about you,。
but the times when I've tried to broker peace in my life,。
it's been really hard.。
And I don't always get it.。
I don't always see peace.。
Even though I might desire it,。
I know in some of the relationships in my life,。
I haven't fully seen the peace that I wanted to see.。
And if Jesus has said blessed are the peace achievers,。
I think we would all be set up to a standard。
that would be very difficult for us.。
The Bible is actually very clear。
that the only fullness of shalom, of peace。
that will ever come。
will come right at the end of all things,。
come right when Jesus returns again.。
When Jesus comes back, everything,。
no more pain, no more sin, no more brokenness,。
no more hatred, no more division,。
everything reconciled around the person of Jesus Christ,。
our shalom, our peace,。
really only will be fully achieved when Jesus returns。
in this time that we're sitting in this in-between time。
between the work of the cross。
and the return of Jesus and the fullness of shalom,。
we will not always see peace.。
We will not always see the fullness。
of that reconciliation in the here and now.。
Does that mean, therefore, that we don't do anything?。
Does it mean that we step away?。
No, because Jesus didn't say,。
"Blessed are the peace achievers."。
He said, "Blessed are the peacemakers."。
Peter would write later beautifully,。
he would say it like this.。
He would say, "As long as it determines on you,。
"live at peace with everyone."。
In other words, here's your responsibility。
to do everything you can to be a peacemaker,。
knowing that not every time will somebody reciprocate.。
Reconciliation takes two people,。
and you might step towards someone,。
but if they refuse to step towards you,。
you may not get the fullness of shalom in that relationship.。
But Peter says this, "As far as it depends on you,。
"live at peace."。
In other words, take your step, do the work yourself,。
be willing to humble yourself,。
call out what it needs to be called out.。
Do that towards them.。
And there'll be those times。
where they will do that towards you,。
and you will find reconciliation,。
and it will be a wonderful, beautiful thing,。
and God will go, "There's my children."。
And then there'll be other times where you step forward,。
and the other person does not,。
and there's still enmity, and there's still brokenness,。
but your heart has done all that it could。
to see reconciliation come,。
and God will stand back and say, "There's my child."。
Blessed are the peacemakers,。
for they will be those。
who will be called the children of God.。
And when we sit with this,。
we realize that Jesus is the ultimate model in all of this.。
If you wanna know what peacemaking really looks like,。
you look to Jesus.。
And here's the thing about Jesus.。
Jesus steps in to heal the greatest division。
that has ever been in all of history,。
and that is the brokenness and the division。
between humanity and God, and God and humanity.。
And the one thing that Jesus makes peace on。
centrally in his ministry。
is that brokenness between God and humanity,。
humanity and God.。
And I wanna show you, Chris,。
I'm gonna grab you for a second, darling.。
You're gonna represent humanity,。
'cause you're such a beautiful example of humanity.。
You're gonna stand there.。
I'm gonna stand over here.。
Now, here's what Jesus did.。
Jesus is on the side of God at the start, right?。
He's on this extreme.。
If this is God over here, and this is humanity over here,。
and there's a division between the two。
because of sin, which humanity brought into the picture。
and chose to sin, Adam and Eve in Genesis 1 and 2 and 3.。
Now, there's this enmity, this brokenness and division。
between God and humanity.。
Here's what Jesus decides to do.。
Incarnate himself to Chris's side, to the human side.。
That's the first thing,。
which we very rarely do when we're peacemakers.。
It's really hard to understand。
the other person's perspective.。
It's really hard to humble yourself,。
to understand how somebody else sees something,。
what ideas they may have,。
what they're feeling in that division.。
Jesus models in the incarnation being on the human side.。
Knowing the pain of humanity,。
knowing what it feels like to be lonely,。
knowing what it feels like。
to see that division happening around.。
Jesus takes on our suffering in the incarnation,。
willing to be in our perspective, but without sin,。
showing us that there is another way。
to live as a human being.。
Now, I'm gonna get Tim to jump back up here。
because I'm gonna be Jesus and you're gonna be God.。
You're the father, I'm the son.。
You can be the Holy Spirit,。
but you're not needed right now.。
You can stay there.。
And Chris is gonna remain humanity.。
But here's the reality.。
Jesus in being human is then able and fully God,。
able to now be the bridge between the two.。
Now notice this, Jesus on the cross,。
nailed with his hands out like this,。
takes the hand of the father。
through his willingness to take on sin onto his life,。
to take on the brokenness of humanity。
and take the hand of humanity。
and bring the two together for a photo op.。
(audience laughing)。
Hold on, no, wait, wait, wait, come on, come on.。
Okay, so Jesus brings and reconciles and makes peace,。
reconciliation between the father and humanity。
through the forgiveness of sin。
by taking that sin onto himself, standing in the gap,。
being that bridge so that these two could be back together,。
offering that in a freeness and a grace.。
This is the ultimate example of peacemaking.。
Are you following that?。
Okay, now notice, okay, you can sit down, you can sit down.。
Well done, you're done.。
But notice this, Jesus does that.。
And then he says, "Blessed are those who do the same."。
Because when they do that, they show the world。
that they have received that reconciliation for themselves.。
They begin to show the world that they're my children,。
that they are the reconciled ones。
who are now, as Paul would say in scripture,。
engaged in the ministry of reconciliation.。
And so our call is to do what Jesus did.。
And of course, our responsibility is not to step in the gap。
with sin and take on all of sin onto our shoulders.。
That's only Jesus, and Jesus did that。
to free us and reconcile us.。
But our now reality is to say,。
how do I incarnate that same process。
in the divisions that I see globally,。
within my city, in my family, within myself?。
How do I step towards the other,。
understand from their perspective, hear their pain?。
How do I have that empathy, not just sympathy,。
but an empathy and a compassion。
for what they've gone through?。
How do I brave a hard conversation。
so that we can bring the two together?。
How do I actually stand in the gap, pray,。
ask for forgiveness myself, go on that journey,。
whatever it might be?。
But I am now called as a child of God。
to be a reconciler in the world,。
and the world desperately needs it.。
And I think God is standing over the church。
and saying, where are my children?。
Because there's more division than ever before.。
Where are my children?。
Where are the ones who have experienced reconciliation。
for themselves at the most important level?。
And where are they in this world right now?。
Because the world desperately needs to see。
something of that reconciliation.。
Yes, ultimately, to God as the primary place。
of reconciliation, but then towards one another.。
Love the Lord your God with all your mind,。
heart, soul, and strength,。
and love your neighbor as yourself.。
We get the great calling and privilege。
to be peacemakers.。
I became a Christian at the age of 20, I shared earlier,。
but I grew up in a Christian home.。
My mother and father loved Jesus, loved the church,。
and some of my earliest memories of life。
is being in church.。
I remember even at the age of four,。
seeing my father slain in the spirit.。
My parents were going to a super Pentecostal。
charismatic church at the time,。
and I remember seeing my father slain in the spirit,。
one of my earliest memories.。
I've always seen my parents in church.。
That's always been a part of who we are.。
My dad loved the church, loved pastors in particular,。
and really held pastors to a high standard。
and a high degree.。
My father was a very successful business person,。
and that enabled him to be very generous。
towards the pastors in the churches that he attended。
throughout his life.。
And there was one particular church。
that my father and my mother were going to for a season,。
and he got to know the pastor there really well.。
They got on very closely,。
and the pastor had a business idea, a business venture。
that he wanted to get into,。
not anything to do with ministry,。
but something in the business world,。
and knew that my father was somebody。
who was accomplished in the business world.。
So the pastor asked my father to partner with him。
in this business endeavor.。
And my father prayed about it, thought about it,。
talked to a few people,。
and decided that this would be a great thing to do.。
And so he really respected this pastor, really trusted him,。
so partnered with him in this business venture.。
What it meant was is that my dad worked full-time。
for this business that was created by this pastor.。
Well, over about a year and a half。
of my father being in that business,。
he got to see the real character of this pastor,。
and he got to see some really dodgy business practices。
which actually culminated。
in what my father would say was corruption.。
And it broke my father's heart.。
All the trust that he had in the church,。
all the trust that he had in pastors,。
all of the ways in which he had esteemed pastors。
and been so generous to pastors,。
and now even given his livelihood over to a pastor。
to do business with him,。
so hurt by the corruption that had happened,。
my father was deeply disrupted and pained by this,。
so angry at this, so angry, in fact,。
that my father decided at that point, he made a vow。
that he would never step foot in a church again,。
and that he would never follow or never be around。
or never connect with a pastor again.。
He still loved Jesus,。
but he made a vow to himself that he was done with pastors。
and done with the church.。
Now, that's painful just even in and of itself,。
but it's even more painful when you consider。
that my father made that vow on the very same week。
that I became senior pastor here at the Vine.。
So I wonder how you might think that would have felt.。
For me, stepping into what was a really big role,。
where I needed a lot of support。
and a lot of help and a lot of prayer,。
and I'm looking at Nigel, who was around at the time。
and knew all about that,。
I needed the support of my father, desperately.。
Not only that, but I was proud。
of becoming senior pastor at the Vine,。
and I wanted my dad to be proud of me too.。
I wanted my dad to be sitting in the front row,。
cheering me on week in and week out.。
That's what I desired, and suddenly my father is like,。
I don't want anything to do with pastors anymore。
at the same time that I had now become a pastor.。
And I remember being so angry at my father,。
so angry that he was turning his back on me。
at the time when I felt like I needed him the most.。
The fact that in about eight years, I think it was,。
between me becoming senior pastor。
and my father passing away,。
in those eight year period,。
I think he came to the Vine twice in eight years.。
Both of them were on Christmas day.。
And I remember feeling deeply inside of myself,。
so much anger,。
so much pain that my father had made these choices。
and that I felt embarrassed when I was around him,。
I felt embarrassed to be a pastor.。
So I had to downplay it all the time.。
And I felt like when my dad and I got together,。
we had nothing to talk about anymore。
because my whole life was serving God in this way.。
And I knew that he didn't wanna hear about any of it.。
And my relationship with my father was deep before。
and then became surface.。
And then over a couple of years, became very distant.。
And we would chat at times about golf or the weather。
or about anything that we could try to think of,。
but we would never talk about the thing。
that was the most important to me。
or the thing that had broken him the most.。
And we drifted and drifted and drifted and drifted.。
And I remember a number of years into this。
feeling so overwhelmed by this division.。
And I remember going to God about it.。
And I remember God saying, "Andrew, you need healing first."。
And this is often the first start in any peacemaking moment。
is to recognize that you have contributed,。
that there is some stuff in you that's not quite right.。
And I recognized that I was holding anger and bitterness,。
frustration towards my father.。
I also recognized as I really was honest about it,。
that I was feeling that way before God a little bit as well.。
Feeling like even God had turned his back on me。
a little bit at the time。
when I was moving into this new role.。
And I felt like the Holy Spirit was saying,。
"Andrew, you need a lot of healing first,。
"that I need to deal with something。
"that's going on in your life."。
There was some sin I needed to repent of.。
There was some brokenness that I needed to deal with.。
And I went on a little journey myself of doing that.。
And then after I'd felt like I'd gone through some of that,。
I was then felt like the Holy Spirit say,。
"Okay, you need to be willing to be a peacemaker."。
And I remember how hard this was,。
but I remember calling my dad and saying,。
"Dad, I'd love to get together for lunch with you。
"'cause I wanna have a conversation about something."。
My dad had no idea what it was about.。
And we met in this Starbucks.。
I can picture the Starbucks,。
and I can picture every person。
that was sitting in that Starbucks.。
Have you ever had a moment in life that's so significant。
that you just remember everything about it?。
And I remember sitting in this Starbucks。
and I braved this really hard conversation with my dad.。
And I told him how much I had been hurt。
by his decision and choices.。
I shared about the anger that I had felt。
and the pain that it caused me.。
I talked about the abandonment I had felt from him。
and also from God.。
And I just began to just pour out all of this stuff to him.。
And he sat there and I had no idea how he was gonna react.。
But he sat there and he listened.。
Then he said, "Andrew, I need to tell you。
"my side of the story."。
I'm like, "Yeah, of course."。
And he began to talk about how deeply hurt。
he had been by this pastor。
and how all the trust and faith he had put in him。
had been broken.。
And he talked about how it created such anxiety in him。
that any time he stepped in a church。
from that point forward,。
just brought him a wave of anxiety。
and that anxiety kept him away from church.。
And he said, "I've wanted to be,"。
and I'd never heard him say this,。
but he said, "I wanted to be in that front row。
"every week, Andrew, but I just couldn't do it.。
"My anxiety and my anger and my bitterness。
"kept me from there.。
"It wasn't about you, but it was about everything else。
"that was going on, but I just couldn't be there."。
And he said, "Sorry," and I said, "Sorry,"。
and these two grown men in the Starbucks。
started weeping like crazy.。
And I'd like to tell you that that instantly。
made our relationship super better。
and that suddenly everything was great again。
between my father and I,。
but actually there was a journey of a number of years。
where we had to actually continue。
to have some of those bigger conversations.。
But that day was a shift.。
It was a breakthrough.。
It was a peacemaking moment.。
And although there was a journey。
towards a deeper relationship between the two of us,。
a journey that enabled us。
to have some of those conversations,。
and then unfortunately before he died,。
we weren't able to have all of them.。
But I know that my relationship with him。
was so much closer and stronger when he died。
than it was before that day in that Starbucks.。
And I think in that moment in Starbucks,。
God was leaning over us by his Spirit。
and saying, "These are my children.。
"They're doing something that is significant.。
"They are making peace."。
And I wonder what that might mean for you here this morning.。
What does it mean for you to be a reconciler。
and have this ministry of reconciliation?。
What does it mean for you to recognize。
that Jesus has done that in the cross for you,。
and as his children, you're called to do that now。
in the world around you?。
What might that look like in your city。
or in your families?。
What might that look like within yourself?。
I know that for some of you in this room,。
you have a similar story to me.。
Maybe there's a brokenness or a division。
between you and one of your parents,。
whether that's your father or your mother,。
and you're wondering whether that rift。
could ever be broken, sorry, ever redeemed and renewed.。
For some of you here, perhaps you're feeling。
a little bit about maybe a sibling。
or an aunt or an uncle within your family.。
So often, the way the enemy works。
is to bring division within our families。
like it happened for me.。
Perhaps, I wanna say this too,。
for some of you, it's your marriage.。
It's between the person that you love the most。
and that God has given you to be that great support。
to you in your life, and there's a brokenness there,。
and you're wondering whether there'll ever be。
any reconciliation in your marriage.。
For some of you, it might be other things,。
maybe a colleague at work,。
maybe a situation that you're aware of,。
maybe an injustice that's happened to you or to a friend,。
and that's created some anger and bitterness and division,。
and God is saying, "Be a peacemaker in that moment."。
Whatever it might mean, understand this,。
you will never make peace in your own strength.。
Like me, there was never going to be enough strength。
within me to have that conversation with my father。
and to bring a conversation that was years in the making,。
years of hurt and pain.。
That wasn't gonna happen in my strength.。
First of all, it had to happen by work of the Spirit,。
healing and restoring me.。
Then it had to be a movement of the Spirit with us.。
And so, for some of you here today,。
you're listening to this and you're like,。
"That's what I want.。
"I wanna be a peacemaker.。
"I wanna see reconciliation happen.。
"I know that reconciliation's not all up to me,。
"and I know that within myself,。
"naturally, I don't want to reconcile, or naturally,。
"I know that's gonna be impossible in my own strength."。
And you're saying, "Lord, how do I start?。
"Where do I begin?"。
It begins simply by this,。
by you saying here today, "Lord, I'm open."。
And I recognize I've been closed for a long time.。
I recognize that I've harbored that anger。
and that bitterness and that unforgiveness,。
but Lord, I'm saying, "I don't know how quickly。
"I'm gonna get to this.。
"I don't know what's gonna be involved in this,。
"but I'm willing to start.。
"Would you come in?。
"And would you come in and begin to deal with me first?。
"And as you begin to do something in me, Lord,。
"I do pray, I do hope。
"that I might see reconciliation with the other.。
"But Lord, today, the step, the first step is just,。
"I bring my heart to you, I ask for your spirit,。
"and I pray that you would meet me."。
And so I wanna pray that over some of you here,。
some of you who recognize。
that this is a warden season for you,。
and that you understand that there are divisions。
and things going on in you,。
maybe in some critical relationships in your life,。
and you know that you haven't got the strength。
to fix it yourself.。
It begins with just saying, "Lord, I'm here.。
"And Lord, I don't have all the answers right now,。
"but what I do know is that you are a peacemaker,。
"you've made me a peacemaker.。
"I'm opening my heart to be a child of God."。
So I wonder whether we could just bow our heads,。
and let's just close our eyes.。
And Father, I just thank you。
that your presence is with us here this morning.。
I thank you, Lord, that your goodness is in this room.。
I thank you, Lord, that there are many people here。
who have perhaps felt like me or my father。
at different points in our lives,。
and there are perhaps people in this room。
who are going through that kind of journey themselves。
right now.。
So Lord, we just come before you in your grace.。
We come before you in the joy of a God。
who has stepped into this world to reconcile it,。
to make peace, shalom, in its fullness of sense。
between the sinful brokenness of humanity。
and the righteousness of God.。
Father, I pray first of all for anyone in this room。
where that's a journey they've yet to make.。
And Lord, they're here today。
'cause maybe someone's invited them,。
or they're interested in finding out a bit more。
about faith and Christianity.。
We'll all be praying for anyone here。
where maybe even in today they've heard a story。
about a God who stepped into humanity to redeem humanity,。
to step into their story to redeem their story.。
And Father, I wanna pray for anyone here today。
where they wanna make that decision for the first time。
to just ask for your forgiveness,。
to bring their sin and their brokenness to you。
and say, "Thank you, Lord, that you've reconciled me,。
"that that work on the cross。
"brought God and me together again.。
"I see that now, and I believe that now."。
So Lord, for anyone in this room。
where that is their story and that is their prayer today,。
Lord, would you come and meet them right in this moment?。
And Lord, would you assure them of their salvation。
as they ask for your forgiveness for their sin?。
And Lord, would you strengthen their hands。
for the journey ahead?。
And Lord, we pray that they would let this decision。
be known to the pastors and leaders here。
so we might be able to walk with them in the season ahead.。
Come Holy Spirit, come.。
And Lord, we turn to those in this room。
that are your children。
and yet no division in this time.。
Father, I pray by your Spirit,。
you would just begin to minister to them now.。
For some of you, it may just be taking some time to weep,。
taking some time just to acknowledge your feelings。
before the Lord, asking Him to be with you.。
(gentle music)。
But for those of you in this room where you're saying,。
I wanna begin this process, I wanna take the first step.。
Lord, I don't know exactly what's gonna be involved,。
I don't know how this reconciliation is gonna take place,。
but here today, I wanna take that step.。
Just whilst our eyes close,。
I wanna just invite you to open your hands before you.。
And I wanna pray for those whose hands are open,。
who are saying, Lord, just in this area,。
with this person I'm thinking of right now,。
in this part of my life,。
where I find I can't bring myself to forgive,。
I can't bring myself to reconcile.。
Lord, I desire to be a peacemaker like you were,。
but Lord, I don't know how to do it.。
I don't know if I've got the strength,。
I know within me I can't,。
but by your Spirit, all things are possible.。
Lord, for those whose hands are open before you,。
right in this moment,。
Lord, I wanna pray by the Spirit of God,。
that you would come and minister to them now.。
That Lord, you would strengthen their hands。
and that you would bring comfort。
to their mourning and their grief.。
Lord, to the struggle that they are holding before you,。
Holy Spirit, come Lord Jesus, come.。
Lord, I pray that you would show them。
what their first step is to be.。
Whether like for me,。
that might be a healing journey for them first and foremost.。
Where that anger has been, your comfort and love will be.。
Where the bitterness has taken root,。
you will uproot it by your Spirit of love.。
Lord, it might be a healing journey.。
For others, it might be the courage。
to reach out this week with a phone call,。
with an invitation to lunch or coffee,。
to go out for a walk with somebody and have a conversation,。
to send an email, whatever it might be,。
to humble themselves and ask for forgiveness,。
whatever it might be, Lord.。
I pray right now for those whose hands are open before you.。
Lord, you would show them what that first step。
towards peacemaking means for them in this time.。
And then Lord, I pray that you would give them the courage,。
the courage to take that step in the week ahead.。
That you would show them exactly how to do it。
in your timing and in the right way.。
And that Lord, in that, there would be a sense of trust。
and a sense of hope that you're at work。
and a sense of joy within them that,。
like maybe like me with my father,。
there aren't always instant, amazing fixes,。
but there are breakthroughs and there are shifts。
and there are changes.。
And I feel like for some of you,。
it's just as I'm praying this,。
just the ability to forgive is really hard.。
I had a chance to pray with somebody。
in the first service in this area。
where forgiveness was really hard for them.。
And I wanna pray for anyone here in this room。
where the idea of forgiving someone feels unjust,。
that forgiving them feels like they're gonna get out,。
get away with their behavior towards you,。
where forgiving them doesn't feel right in your spirit.。
I wanna just pray that the Lord would be with you。
really strongly in this moment.。
(gentle music)。
And that you would give justice to Him.。
And that you would understand that in Scripture,。
there's this tough call, but beautiful one,。
where Jesus says, "There is a forgiveness command."。
It's a command to forgive.。
Some of you have held on to unforgiveness for too long.。
And not only has it caused a division in a relationship,。
but it's actually caused a division in your heart.。
It's actually broken you more than it's broken。
the other relationship.。
And the Lord's saying forgiveness is not just。
for the benefit of the other,。
it's actually more for the benefit of yourself.。
It's to let go of that bitterness that you've held on to,。
let go of the way you've been beating yourself up.。
As you forgive them, there's something of healing。
and restoration that comes to you.。
And I pray, Lord, for the courage this week.。
For some people in this room。
who have been struggling to forgive,。
for them to be menaces of forgiveness,。
offering forgiveness,。
whether that's directly with the person。
or whether that's just in their heart before you,。
but Lord, you would work forgiveness。
and the power of that forgiveness in their life。
in such a beautiful way.。
So just come Holy Spirit, come.。
I wanna encourage you to sustain this attitude of prayer.。
And if you have come with someone who can pray for you。
and you would like prayer,。
maybe you can just in this time invite somebody around you。
to pray for you.。
We can just begin to minister to one another。
as the worship team begins to lead us back。
into a time of worship,。
but have the courage to ask someone to pray for you.。
And let's just allow the Holy Spirit。
to minister to us closely.。
(gentle music)。
