"And Lord, haste the day when my faith shall be sight.。
The Lord shall return for my soul."。
Those lyrics that we just heard in that beautiful hymn。
that was originally written by Horatio Spafford。
and first published in 1876,。
carries with it so much of the central themes。
of this season of Advent。
that we're now celebrating here in 2024。
and that we began last week.。
This idea that when the Lord returns,。
our faith shall be sight.。
As we began our Advent series last week,。
I explained to us that historically,。
Advent is actually the celebration of two distinct events.。
It's the celebration of the first Advent,。
the first arrival of Jesus as a child on Christmas day.。
But Advent is also the celebration of the longing。
that we have for the return of Christ,。
to come back, not just to be born as a child,。
but to return at the end of all things。
as a conquering king。
and living on behalf of both of those realities today.。
That's what Advent is.。
It's the great privilege and challenge that we have。
to live between what would be called。
the two bookends of redemptive history,。
of Jesus's story, both his birth and his return.。
We sit between those times。
and we have the great privilege。
and the glory of living the world。
and showing the world。
how these two events shape everything.。
Scholars call this time of living between the birth。
and the return of Jesus the now but not yet time.。
Now, in the sense that Christ has come at Christmas。
in that first original Advent,。
that he did inaugurate the kingdom,。
that he did go to the cross。
and paid the price for our sins,。
that he did rise from there three days later,。
that he did gather his disciples around him。
and give them the mission。
for commissioning the world into discipleship,。
that he did ascend to heaven。
and send his spirit to help us in our time here.。
All of that is now, that has happened,。
yet we're also living with this sense of not yet,。
that the reality is that sin is still an issue for us.。
Its victory has come completely on the cross。
and yet we still struggle with the influence。
and the impact of sin on our lives.。
We still see the impact of sin in the world。
and so the New Testament holds this tension。
between the reality that Christ has come。
and yet the need for him to return and return soon。
because when he comes back,。
as John sees this vision on the island of Patmos。
and God pulls the curtain back at the end of all things。
and goes in Revelation 21, 22,。
this is how it's all going to end.。
As we see that, we long for it。
because then the world will be completely as it should be.。
Now though, we're in the in-between。
and the New Testament is filled with passages。
about that in-between time.。
And last week, we took a look at Paul's famous passage。
in 1 Corinthians 13, not the love section,。
but the bit right after it。
where he basically says to his church,。
look, when we're living in this in-between time,。
we're living in a time where imperfection。
is the reality for us,。
but there is a time coming when perfection will return.。
And Paul says, it's like we don't know everything right now.。
In this now but not yet time, there are gaps。
in our knowledge, gaps in our experience.。
And we human beings, we don't like the gaps.。
When we have questions that go unanswered in our lives,。
when we have uncertainties that we sit in,。
human beings, we don't like that.。
And we wanna try and solve all of the mysteries.。
We wanna try and get all the answers.。
We really don't like being in the gaps.。
But Paul writes to the church and he says,。
you've gotta understand in this now but not yet time。
between the bookends of the birth and the return,。
there will be some gaps.。
There's a time coming where there will be no gaps.。
When perfection returns and we'll see everything。
and our faith as that lyric said, shall be made sight.。
But right now we sit in the in-between。
and there's a longing inside of us.。
That when we find ourselves in the gaps of life,。
we can have two choices.。
Either we are overwhelmed and succumbed by the gaps。
and they drain life from us,。
or perhaps the gaps are the great catalyst。
to our deepening relationship and trust。
in the one who has no gaps.。
And Paul says, here's the beautiful thing.。
That although we are in this now but not yet time。
and there's tension and there's gaps,。
God has not left us alone in the gaps.。
And he says right at the end of chapter 13,。
in one Corinthians, he says this.。
He says, now three things remain for us.。
Faith, hope, and love.。
And it's like Paul is saying,。
God has given us these vehicles,。
these catalysts within the gaps of this now but not yet time。
to help us to reconnect with him,。
to develop a deeper trust and hope in him。
that we would see the endable things。
and desire for it to come,。
that we would cry that prayer。
at the end of the New Testament,。
Maranatha, come Lord Jesus.。
'Cause we wanna see the world。
just as you have always created it to be.。
And so in our Advent series here at the Biome,。
we're taking faith, hope, and love this week。
and the next two.。
We're gonna unpack those for us.。
And today we're starting with the topic of faith.。
Now for me to try to cover the idea of faith。
in one message is too impossible.。
So what I wanna do is speak about faith with you today。
in the way that I think it's most relevant。
in this now but not yet tension of our Advent season。
between the birth and the return of Jesus.。
And to understand that,。
we have to first of all begin to grapple with the reality。
that the way that we think about faith today。
in the modern church is totally different。
to how the first Christians in the first century。
in the New Testament thought about faith.。
You see, here in the modern church,。
we think about faith like this.。
We essentially boil faith down to belief,。
to a set of beliefs that we have。
that creates a faith within us.。
And those beliefs are like doctrinal statements。
that we stand with and we honor and we agree to,。
and that means I have the Christian faith.。
I can call myself a Christian if I believe certain things.。
So when we say to somebody, I have faith in Jesus,。
what we're really saying in the modern context。
is I believe in the story of Jesus.。
I believe that he inaugurated the kingdom.。
I believe he came at Christmas.。
I believe that he went to the cross。
and paid the price of my sins.。
I believe he rose after three days.。
I believe that we have the spirit now in us,。
the same spirit that raised Jesus from the dead。
now lives in me.。
I believe all those things.。
And so therefore, I can call myself a Christian。
and I say I have faith, belief in Jesus.。
Does that make sense to you?。
So that's how we think about it。
and we use that phrase all the time.。
You can go onto the Vine website。
and we have a statement of faith.。
Well, that basically is a statement of beliefs。
that we hold to as a church community。
that we encourage you also to embrace。
as you fellowship and worship along with us.。
So we use this idea in the modern church of faith。
being connected primarily to belief,。
our way of thinking, doctrinal statements that we adhere to,。
but that is not how it was used in the New Testament.。
'Cause you need to put yourself in the sandals,。
if you will, of the first century Christians.。
They're trying to evangelize, bring the gospel。
to a Greco-Roman culture and world.。
And within the Roman world, there was a pantheon of gods,。
many, many different kinds of gods.。
And because in the Roman world,。
there was such a pantheon of gods,。
if you were a good Roman citizen,。
you believed in all of these gods.。
Now, just believing in them。
didn't mean you were worshiping them all.。
In fact, it was impossible for you。
to worship all of these gods,。
but you believed in them。
alongside of your fellow faithful Greek people。
because that was the understanding and the culture.。
Now, what the first century Christians realized is,。
if they just said to a Roman person,。
"Hey, we want you to believe in Jesus,"。
their response would be, "Sure, happy to believe in Jesus.。
"I can just add Jesus onto the shelf。
"with all the other gods that I believe in.。
"We can just put Jesus into the pantheon of gods,。
"and that's all fine.。
"Believing in Jesus doesn't mean。
"I actually have to worship him."。
Are you following this?。
So when the first century church。
was trying to talk about what it meant to say,。
Jesus is Lord,。
they needed to find a word。
that defined for them more than just belief.。
Because if it was just about belief,。
the Romans would just add Jesus to the pantheon.。
They wanted the Romans to get rid of the pantheon。
and follow after Jesus and Jesus alone.。
They knew that Jesus was the only God,。
that he was the only God to worship.。
And then when you brought Jesus into your life,。
it meant a complete radical transformation of self.。
It meant that nothing else mattered after that point.。
It meant that there was no other God。
that was to be worshiped,。
that Jesus demanded everything that I had,。
that I would have to pick up my cross and follow him.。
I would need to give away all the other pantheon of gods。
and say, "This is the one true God."。
So they were like,。
"What word can we use from the Greek culture。
"that will help them to understand。
"that we're calling them for a radical change in their life?"。
So here's what they did.。
They chose the Greek word, "Pistes."。
And Pistes was used in Greek culture of those days。
to mean trust,。
particularly trustworthiness in relational context,。
or actually it carried with it the sense of commitment,。
committed, loyal, trusting relationship.。
Even when things get hard, I'm committed, I'm trusting,。
I'm in relationship with this thing,。
and I will carry that on forever.。
So the word Pistes was used in Greek culture。
to speak of this undying, connected trust。
to another in relationship with them。
that everything else has to submit to it.。
And they took that word and they said,。
"This is what it means to believe in Jesus."。
It's like you're having this Pistes relationship with him.。
Everything else needs to fall away.。
He's the only one you should trust.。
Does that make sense?。
Now, can you guess。
in your English language versions of the Bible。
what English word is used to translate。
the Greek word Pistes?。
You guessed it, it's the word faith.。
Now, this is really important that you understand this。
because when you read the word faith in the New Testament,。
it's not just talking about some set idea of beliefs,。
it's actually talking about the complete giving away。
of your life in fullness and trust。
to this relationship you have with Jesus.。
So every time the faith comes up。
in your English language Bible,。
it's actually talking about,。
are you trusting your whole life in relationship to this。
or are you putting your trust in other places?。
It was a call to complete surrender。
and this was the word that they used。
as they shared the hope of Jesus in the world.。
Now, here's why it's important that I tell you that.。
Because one of the things I want you to start doing。
is you read the New Testament。
and you see the word faith in Jesus or faith pop up,。
you should begin to translate that。
as this is calling me to trust the Lord more,。
not believe certain things.。
Are you with me?。
It's not a stopping at,。
I'm just gonna have some intellectual understanding。
of something, this is actually。
about the radical transformation of my life.。
Helpful?。
Okay, now, the New Testament is filled with moments。
where it speaks of this radical kind of call。
to trusting in God beyond everything.。
But I wanna take you to perhaps。
what is the most famous of these,。
the one that I think actually speaks the most。
to this now but not yet time of advent。
that we're in right now.。
And this is found in Hebrews chapter 11,。
starting in verse one.。
Now, listen to this, this is what the writer says.。
He says, "Now, faith is confidence in what we hope for。
and the assurance about what we do not see.。
This is what the ancients were commended for."。
So by faith, we understand that the universe。
was formed at God's command so that it was seen。
or what was seen was not made out of what was visible.。
By faith, Abel offered God a better sacrifice than Cain did.。
By faith, he was commended as a righteous man。
when God spoke well of his offerings.。
And by faith, he still speaks even though he is dead.。
By faith, Enoch was taken from this life。
so that he did not experience death.。
He could not be found because God had taken him away.。
For before he was taken,。
he was commended as one who pleased God.。
And without faith, it is impossible to please God.。
Ho, ho, ho, I wanna preach on this one from it.。
Are you okay?。
Notice this again.。
Without faith, it is impossible to please God.。
I don't know about you, I don't know if you've ever。
taken some time to actually deeply reflect。
around what the writer in Hebrews here。
is actually trying to communicate.。
Without faith, it is impossible to please God.。
I don't know about you, but that sort of feels to me。
a little bit like an unfair obligation on humans.。
I don't know if you've ever tried to please God.。
Have you ever tried to please God?。
Just me?。
We all try to please God, don't we, all the time.。
Or maybe for like one day, you're like,。
if I could only just please God a little bit more,。
if I can only get God's a little bit more favor on my side,。
more of his blessings, then everything will go well.。
So today, I'm just gonna try to be a nicer person.。
I'm gonna try to be a little bit better.。
I'm gonna try to like get my life in order.。
I'm gonna confess all my sins.。
I'm gonna do all of this stuff to try to get God。
to be pleased with me so that his grace would be on me more,。
so that his blessings would be,。
and we work really hard as human beings sometimes。
to try to do all of this activity。
in order for God to be pleased.。
And the writer here says, it is impossible。
to please God without faith.。
So you can do all of these activities,。
all of these things that you're thinking。
is winning God's favor, and none of it is gonna please him。
if you do it without faith.。
Faith is the changing thing,。
the thing that changes everything in the conversation.。
The passage here does not say, hey, if you try hard enough,。
he will be pleased with you.。
It doesn't say here, hey, if you're good enough,。
he's gonna be pleased with you.。
It doesn't say if you're successful enough,。
he's gonna be pleased with you.。
It literally says without faith, you cannot please God.。
The only thing that we have that brings pleasure。
in God's eyes, that grants this great pleasure to him。
is when we exercise faith.。
Now here's the other interesting thing about this.。
I wonder if you've thought of it this way.。
We are the only species in the whole of God's creation。
who is called to do this.。
In other words, everything else is not called to do that.。
So for example, a dog is not called to live by faith.。
Possums are not called to live by faith.。
Trees are not called to live by faith.。
The only creation that God has made。
that is called to live by faith is us, is humans.。
We are the only ones who are held to that kind of standard.。
Now why is that important?。
Because really, if you follow the logic。
of what the writer's trying to communicate here,。
here's what he's saying.。
Faith, which is this exercise of our trust in God,。
is the one activity we do that makes us truly human.。
It's the one thing we do that actually separates us。
from the animal kingdom around us,。
which is really challenging if you flip it the other way。
and think of it like this.。
If you live without faith, you are just an animal.。
No, no, that's not a joke.。
I'm preaching to you what God is communicating here to us,。
that our exercise of faith is the one thing。
that actually makes us truly human.。
And if we live without faith,。
then we are no better than the animal kingdom around us.。
You know, a dog pleases the Lord。
simply by just being a dog, a possum,。
just by being a possum, a tree,。
by the glorious fact that it is just a tree.。
They just have to exist to please God,。
but us, we have to exercise trust in Him.。
And as we do that, we find ourselves。
being more the way we were ever created to be.。
We were literally designed and created。
to honor the Lord with faith, to live a life of faith.。
And when we live without faith,。
we are actually living far beyond and below。
the standard of our human potential.。
Faith is this incredible thing。
that helps us to exercise exactly who it is。
that we've been made to be.。
It separates us from the rest of God's creation,。
and it plants our feet firmly in this idea。
that we are human, which is really interesting.。
Because so often as human beings,。
when it comes to faith, here's what we think.。
We think faith makes somebody superhuman.。
Oh, Pastor Andrew, he has such great faith.。
Oh, I wish I was like Pastor Andrew.。
Oh, if only I could be a little bit more like Pastor Andrew,。
I would also have great faith,。
and I would be a better person,。
and I would live a better life.。
And we kind of put people up on a pedestal,。
and we say, these people have super faith,。
and we wanna try and be like these superhumans。
who give faith.。
But the writer in Hebrews here。
is saying the opposite of this.。
He's saying, look, faith doesn't make you superhuman.。
Faith makes you simply human.。
Come on, church.。
It doesn't make you superhuman.。
It doesn't put a cape on your back with a big S on it.。
It just makes you the way you were designed to be,。
'cause you are not a dog, you are not a possum.。
You are a human being.。
Therefore, please him with faith.。
And if you live without faith, then you're no better。
than any of these other creative things around you.。
You're not actually being human.。
So it's like the writer here is actually inviting humanity。
into the glory of being just as God had created them to be.。
And this is important, 'cause he's saying。
we have to separate ourselves from all other creation,。
and the way we do that is we please God by giving faith,。
which means we should ask the question,。
what does faith look like?。
How do we do that then?。
Because I wanna be human.。
I don't know about you, but I do not wanna be a dog.。
(congregation laughing)。
I wanna be a human being,。
and I wanna live for the glory of God,。
and I want my life to please him.。
And if we cannot please God without faith,。
then my question is, how do we live with faith?。
So good that the phone went right at the end of that.。
You hear that?。
How do we live without faith?。
(imitates phone ringing)。
That's God's message to you.。
(congregation laughing)。
(imitates phone ringing)。
Turn your phones off in Jesus' name, I love you.。
All right.。
(congregation laughing)。
How do we do this?。
Well, now that we've unpacked the very end。
of the passage I read, and we understand this call。
to be separated from everything around us。
and be truly human, let's now go back and see how it's done.。
Notice what it says in verse one.。
"Now faith is the confidence in what we hope for."。
Hang on, okay, let's just stop there.。
Let's just stop there for a moment.。
"Faith is the confidence in what we hope for."。
I don't know about you, but that is not gonna work for me.。
That is not gonna work for me because I don't know。
if that is how I'm living my life.。
In fact, I can tell you that's usually not the way。
I live my life.。
Faith is the confidence in what we hope for.。
Hope seems so out there, doesn't it?。
It seems so nebulous.。
It doesn't feel rooted in anything.。
It feels like it's some future thing。
that we can't tangibly grasp.。
No, you wanna know what we find our confidence in?。
As human beings, it's not some nebulous little hope。
that's kind of out there somewhere.。
What we find confidence is what we have right here and now.。
We root our confidence in what we have, don't we?。
So much of our lives is based off the confidence。
of what we have, not the confidence of what we hope for.。
We actually have more confidence in our bank accounts。
than we do in the promises of God.。
Oh, you don't want me to preach this.。
I'm gonna preach this one.。
We have more confidence in our bank accounts。
than we do in taking a risk in Jesus.。
We have more confidence in our workplaces。
and the job that we do that puts a roof over our head。
than we do in trusting Him.。
We have more confidence in our own skill sets。
and what we are and our gifts and our talents。
than we do in relying on Him。
and the work of His Spirit in this life.。
And so when the Bible says,。
"Here's faith, have confidence in what you hope for,"。
we say, "No."。
No, I'm rooted and I'm grounded in what I have。
and what I have gives me confidence.。
Only me that does this.。
Anyone else here do that?。
We root ourselves, don't we, in what we have。
and that's where we draw our confidence。
and the writer here is saying, "You've got it wrong.。
"It's got to be in what you hope for."。
Why?。
Because there is such a big difference。
between what you have and what you hope for.。
See, what you have is your possessions.。
What you hope for is your expectations.。
What you have is past and present.。
This is very important.。
What you hope for is future.。
Put it in the language of this series.。
What you have is now, what you hope for is not yet.。
And here's what the writer's saying.。
If all you do is live without faith,。
then you are rooting yourself。
in the past and the present only.。
Come on, church, follow the logic.。
He's saying, if you live without faith,。
if faith literally is designed to be this hoping。
for what we don't currently have。
and all you do is live without faith,。
that means you're only living for what you do have.。
That's something that you've received in the past。
or something you're possessing in the present.。
You're trapped in the past and the present,。
but human beings were made for the future.。
Human beings were not made to just honor。
and understand the past and the present.。
We were made to move the world。
with the work of the spirit towards its good future.。
And so the writer here is attacking this sort of idea。
that, hey, if you're without faith, it's just about now,。
which we saw last week when Paul writes。
about the now but not yet.。
What does he say about the now?。
He says the now is a hard place to be。
'cause we've got these big gaps。
and we don't have all the answers。
and we don't know everything.。
And it's like looking in a mirror dimly。
and the now here overwhelms us.。
And when it overwhelms us, we try to control.。
And when we try to control, we make things even worse.。
And this is why he then writes and says,。
you wanna know what the way to live really is?。
It's not to live trapped in the past or the present.。
In the now, the way to live as a human being。
created in the image of God。
is to put your confidence in what you hope for.。
It's to begin to stretch beyond into the future。
and believe that that is where the promises of God are。
and God will bring those promises.。
Oh, I have confidence in what I hope for.。
I'm not tethered here to what is just now.。
This is Paul saying, this is why God gives us faith.。
See, if God just wanted you rooted。
in the past and the present,。
he wouldn't have given you faith。
in this now but not yet time.。
Instead, to help you in those gaps,。
faith comes to lift you out of the present and the past。
and bring you towards the hope of his return.。
Oh, haste the day when you return。
when my faith will become sight.。
That what I believe right now,。
I will see in its fullness then.。
That's my longing.。
See, this is the great message of Advent.。
The great message of Advent。
is that this idea of peace comes upon us。
when we're not kind of looking for what we have right now。
but we're longing for what we hope for in the future.。
And here's the thing, if you do not have confidence。
in what you hope for in the future,。
you will hold on far too tightly。
to what you have in the present.。
Come on, church, I'm gonna say that again.。
If you do not have confidence。
in what you hope for in the future,。
that will force you to hold on way too tightly。
to what you have in the past and in the present.。
And all those things that the Holy Spirit。
actually wants to release from you,。
all those things that tether you。
to the pain of your past or the struggles of your present,。
he wants to release you to that.。
But if your confidence is there and not there,。
you're gonna be tethered here.。
Are you following what the writer's saying?。
Now, this is really important。
because this is an invitation。
to greater freedom in your life.。
And some of you need to understand this.。
This is so important.。
When you live without faith,。
you will live tethered to the past and the present.。
And that will shape how you think about life.。
And here's the thing,。
if that is shaping how you think about life,。
you are living more with fate than faith.。
I wanna unpack this one for you for a moment.。
See, I'm convinced that the majority of Christians。
actually think they're living faithfully,。
but they're actually living faithfully.。
You see, the Bible is saying, here's how to live.。
Have greater confidence in what you hope for。
than what you have.。
But the reality is for all of us, I would say,。
we actually root ourselves in what we have。
more than what we hope for.。
And therefore, we're allowing what has happened already。
to determine what's gonna happen ahead.。
That's fate.。
Fate is the predetermined understanding。
of everything in the world that has happened。
and that I'm caught up in an unchangeable sequence of events。
because of what's happened and what is happening.。
That's fate.。
And this is the great challenge to us.。
As Christians, we might think we're being faithful,。
but we're actually being faithful.。
We're actually logging ourselves in that。
than the hope of what is to come.。
And this is the great invitation.。
Lift yourself out from a fate way of thinking。
to a faith way of thinking.。
To do that, just be confident in what it is。
that you hope for.。
Question is, you should wrestle with this one this week.。
What is it that you're hoping for?。
And what is it that you're hoping for。
that has a confidence in your heart。
that's far greater than what you currently already possess?。
If you can make that shift,。
you will move from fate to faith.。
And let me just say this one more time.。
If you are living with fate,。
you are no better than an animal。
because that's what animals do.。
That's how they live.。
That's how they function.。
They're fate-based.。
They are doing it out of the response。
of the past and the present.。
We humans are arranged and designed to live differently.。
And the question is, will we live differently?。
Are you tracking with this still?。
Now, notice what happens in the second half of this.。
This blows my mind even more.。
It says this, so now faith is the confidence。
in what we hope for and the assurance。
of what is not yet seen.。
This one's also not gonna work for me, by the way.。
The assurance of what we do not yet see,。
that doesn't make any sense。
because surely my whole life is kind of based。
off of what I can see.。
Surely the assurance I have is in how I see things。
in my life and the things that I can tangibly see around me.。
In fact, humans actually define success。
based on what they see.。
This, my friends, is why social media exists.。
It's why we have Instagram.。
I'm on Instagram, so just, you know,。
you can follow me if you want, but anyway.。
(audience laughing)。
But Instagram is essentially me saying,。
I wanna show you a side of who I am.。
I wanna show you how successful I am.。
I wanna show you the best moments of my life。
because we judge based on what we currently see, don't we?。
Like, that's just the natural way that we do this,。
and the writer here says, if you only live a life。
where you're basing it on what you currently see,。
then again, you're not actually being human.。
Follow the logic once again。
because our faith, which makes us able to please God。
in our humanity, is based on the assurance。
of what we do not yet see.。
So in other words, Christians should go out into the world。
and they should see the world differently。
from everybody else, but I think we struggle with this.。
I don't think this comes naturally to us,。
and I think we have to think deeply about this。
'cause I don't know about you,。
but if you start looking at the world,。
it's pretty depressing on the whole.。
I mean, there's a lot of pain out there.。
There's a lot of brokenness.。
There's a lot of sin.。
There's a lot of betrayal.。
There's a lot of death and war and violence and suffering.。
And if we were to look at the world。
purely at what we currently see,。
I think we would be the most depressed people。
that we could possibly be.。
We as Christians are called to faith,。
which means that when we see the world,。
we don't ignore the challenges and the difficulties,。
but we should see beyond what we see in the physical。
and we should begin to see with eyes of faith.。
We should begin to see what God is doing in the spiritual。
'cause you know that there's two realms。
happening all the time, amen?。
There's the physical reality of what we see,。
but there's the spiritual realm of what God is doing.。
And so often God is calling forth the things。
that are not as if they were.。
And this is interesting 'cause we Christians。
should embrace this, but we so often don't.。
In fact, when we see the world,。
when we see people, we so often call out what we see。
and we wag a finger and we judge and we pull down。
and we criticize and we gossip and we do all the things。
that the world does and nothing separates us.。
But we should see the brokenness in this world,。
the injustice and the poverty and the suffering。
and the cruelty, and we should see beyond it。
to how God sees it.。
We should get a compassion for it.。
We should weep on its behalf and we should rise up in faith。
and wanna do something about it.。
We should be the ones that see the world。
in a different way.。
We should as Christians look upon say a drug addict。
and we should see yes, the ravages of the chemicals。
that are hurting that person and what they're doing。
and the addictive behavior and lifestyle that's coming for.。
We shouldn't ignore the reality of what we see,。
but when we see a drug addict as a Christian,。
you should see that reality,。
but then you should also begin to see,。
oh man, I can see this man,。
how he would be if he was restored back to health,。
how if Christ came into his life and began to minister to him。
how he began to get the help and the freedom he needs.。
I can see this person back in a community thriving again。
with a job, looking healthy.。
I can see this person's life turn around.。
I refuse to settle with what my eyes tell me.。
I will look with what my spirit tells me。
and this one can be alive.。
We might look at a friend who's depressed right now。
and struggling with mental health issues。
and perhaps they were a great friend of ours。
and we had done a lot with them,。
but they've gotten kind of weird。
and it's not nice to be around them anymore。
and we're struggling with that。
and we're not hanging out with them as much。
and we're not even sure。
if we're really that good friends or not。
and if we only see with what our eyes tell us to see,。
if we live without faith,。
we're just gonna label them。
as somebody who's just got some mental health challenges,。
we're gonna leave them alone,。
but imagine if you had faith,。
the assurance of what you do not see。
and you look upon them。
and again, you see what's going on in their lives,。
you don't downplay it, you don't ignore it,。
the reality of the depression that's upon them,。
but you begin to see them free from that depression.。
You begin to see that the spirit of God could move。
and do something in their lives.。
You believe that there is some therapy。
and some help that could come alongside of them。
and revitalize who they are。
and you can see them again,。
healthy and full and flourishing。
and so when you look at them,。
you do not look without faith。
because if all you ever see is what is presented before you,。
how are you ever gonna be an agent of change。
for Christ in the world?。
Come on church.。
The advent is this invitation to us。
to find ourselves being truly human again.。
To say that it's not easy to live。
between the birth and the return of Christ,。
but we are not left alone in the gaps。
that we all feel that no, there is faith.。
This faith that pleases God,。
that separates us from the animal world around us。
and makes us truly as we were created to be。
and this faith is the confidence in what I'm hoping for.。
It is the assurance about what I currently do not see。
and I wanna live that kind of life。
because I believe that life changes the world.。
It's this kind of faith。
and actually the lack of it as well。
that you see throughout the Christmas story.。
I wonder if you've ever thought。
about the Christmas story in this way.。
Zachariah is a great example to us。
at the beginning of the Christmas story。
of one who did not have this kind of faith。
and when angel Gabriel showed up in the temple。
and said, Elizabeth is pregnant, she's gonna have a child,。
his immediate response is basically,。
I have confidence in what I have。
and I only see with my eyes what I see。
and what I have right now is old age and an old wife.。
What I see is years and years and years of infertility.。
I don't believe you。
and God brings a judgment on Zachariah。
because of that, he goes mute for the rest of the story。
until she gives birth but Elizabeth, this is interesting,。
where Zachariah struggles with that kind of faith,。
Elizabeth has it.。
So when she hears the news that this is going to happen,。
she immediately turns to God and she says,。
it is going to happen the way you had it。
and she said, it's because you are pleased with me。
which is an interesting play on this idea of faith。
enables us to please God。
but our faith makes him pleased with us.。
Mary, when Gabriel shows up to her and says,。
okay, I know that you're an unmarried teenager。
but you're about to have a baby,。
she's like, now, if that had been me,。
I would have had confidence in what I have。
and I would see what it is that I see。
and I'd be like, I haven't had sex, I'm a virgin.。
This is never gonna happen, this is not gonna happen,。
this is not gonna go the way it is, I don't believe it。
and instead, her response is this beautiful response,。
one of the most beautiful things that is said,。
one of the most greatest statements of faith。
we have in all the scripture, she simply says,。
may it be done with me as you have commanded。
'cause she could see and she hoped for something。
that was different in the world。
than what she currently could see。
and what she thought she had.。
You go through the whole story this way,。
Joseph willing to marry her,。
God speaking to him in a dream。
and saying, don't give up on this.。
Again, if he had based himself in the present reality,。
he would have wanted to run away.。
Instead, he decides to have confidence。
in what he hopes for,。
he decides to see what is currently not yet seen。
and he decides to continue in the relationship。
and marry her.。
The shepherds, they decide to leave their sheep behind。
and go and meet with Jesus, that was a radical decision.。
They were basically giving up all of their livelihood。
and leaving that behind and moving towards Christ.。
Then you've got Simeon and Anna in the temple。
on the eighth day when Jesus comes in,。
their whole lives were built on faith.。
They refused to only believe what they had,。
they refused to only see what was around them.。
Instead, they had dedicated their whole lives in the temple。
to hope for the coming of the Messiah,。
to believe that they would see it with their own eyes.。
That's actually what Simeon says when he sees Jesus,。
he says, I now can see with my own eyes。
the thing that I had been assured of。
that I didn't yet see, I now see。
and because I now see it,。
you can actually let your faithful servant go to rest.。
In other words, the faith has come through.。
The Christmas story is filled with this invitation to faith。
and when we live in this Advent season of the now。
but not yet, our cry is to move in that direction,。
to find faith rising up in us.。
This confidence of what we hope for,。
this assurance of what we do not yet see。
and when we live like that,。
we truly show the world what it is that God is going to do.。
Now each week, I wanna help you to wrestle。
with these concepts in the week ahead。
and last week, I gave you a series of questions,。
hopefully you did them。
during some quiet time throughout your week.。
If you didn't, I still love you.。
I'm not happy with you but I still love you, okay?。
And I have another series of questions。
that I want you to take a photo of。
and I wanna invite you over the week。
to spend 30 minutes or so reflecting on your answers.。
So you can take a photo of this slide.。
What usually comes to mind when you think about faith。
and how has the teaching today。
helped to redefine this bit for you?。
In this moment of your life,。
what does exercising faith look like for you?。
Where is God asking you personally。
to have confidence in what you hope for。
and assurance in what you do not see?。
Where are you currently holding on。
to what you have more than what you hope for?。
Where are you currently seeing only what is present。
rather than what is promised?。
I think if you took 30 minutes or so this week。
and you really were honest with yourself。
about those questions, I believe for some of you,。
this would be the starting point。
from shifting from a fateful life to a faithful life.。
And it may not be easy and there may be some work。
that you need to do with the Holy Spirit in this process。
but this is Advent, this is what we are called to do.。
We want to live on behalf of God's grand vision。
at the end of all things。
and we want that to have an impact and to change this world.。
Think of it this way, God does not want you to settle。
for the history of humanity.。
He wants you actually to fight for the future of humanity.。
The only way that we can do that is if we have faith.。
Can I pray for you?。
Let's pray.。
Lord, we are so grateful for Advent,。
for this now but not yet time。
where we see through a mirror darkly,。
where we don't have all the answers.。
We're grateful that you haven't left us alone in that space,。
that your Spirit is present here with us。
in its fullness within us and around us。
and that we have this thing called faith,。
not a set of doctrinal beliefs as important as they are。
but actually a complete trust in you.。
So much trust in you that we actually let go of our trust。
of what we see right now。
and our trust in what we have right now,。
grateful as we are for those things。
'cause they've come from you。
but if our trust is in only what we have,。
if our sight is in only what we currently see,。
then we're making those our God rather than you.。
And Lord, you shift us to have a confidence。
in what we hope for,。
an assurance about what we do not yet see.。
You shift us out of making idols of our possessions。
and you help us to give our lives to expectation.。
You take us out of being trapped in the past and the present。
and you invite us to life with the future before us.。
And Father, as you pulled back that curtain。
and showed us what the end of the world will look like。
with every tribe and tongue and nation coming together。
with healing being there for all nations,。
Father, we wanna live on behalf of that now.。
Lord, would you help us to separate ourselves。
from the animal world around us?。
Lord, we recognize that if we live without faith,。
we are no better than any of your other species.。
You have called and created us in your image。
and faith is our way that brings pleasure to you.。
So Lord, I wanna pray for anyone in this room。
where this message is really hitting for them.。
And perhaps they recognize more fateful thinking。
than faithful thinking.。
Perhaps they see how they're tethered to what they have。
and not free to long for what they do not have.。
As I'm praying, I wanna say this to some of you.。
Some of you are remaining in a job that you hate。
rather than having the courage to search。
for the one that you've always longed for。
because you put more trust in what you have。
than in what you hope for.。
I believe that's for some of you here in a relationship.。
You're in a relationship that you know。
is not healthy for you, that is not helping you。
and yet you're remaining in that relationship。
'cause you have more trust in what you have。
than trust in what you're hoping for.。
So Lord, if there's anybody here。
where that resonates for them,。
Lord, I wanna pray again for the liberation。
that comes from the work of your Spirit in our lives.。
Lord, I wanna pray that we would have the courage。
to live with faith.。
And that in so doing, we would become the people。
that you've created us to be.。
And we would help to see this world move towards。
that grand vision of every tribe, tongue and nation。
worshiping you, of all of the healing。
on the leaves of the tree in that beautiful city。
that's to come.。
That we would say, that's the vision that drives my heart.。
I wanna live for the future, not past.。
Lord, this is faith.。
I wanna just encourage you just to receive that now.。
The Bible says that faith is a gift of the Spirit.。
So I wanna pray for the Spirit of God just to come。
and stir great faith in some of you.。
Some of you, it's been about faith too long.。
It's time for you to move in faith.。
It's gonna take courage.。
It's gonna take a different way of thinking,。
but that is the way you will please the Lord.。
Lord, would you release faith in the name of Jesus。
over these people?。
Lord, would faith rise up?。
Faith rise up.。
Lord, give us eyes to see what we currently do not see.。
Give us hope where hope feels like it's been stolen from us.。
Revitalize our humanity.。
We pray this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says, amen.。
Hey, would you stand with me?。
And we're gonna just finish our time together。
responding in just a time of worship。
in response to what the Lord is doing here.。
