And we thank you for this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says, Amen.。
Amen. Amen.。
Have a seat.。
You know, one of the things that's so important for us to understand。
is that for over 2000 years,。
God has shaped his church through the use of his prophetic voice.。
One of the most profound things that we have as Christians。
is this idea that we worship a speaking God.。
Amen.。
I'm gonna try that again.。
We worship a speaking God.。
Amen.。
And when we worship a speaking God, what that means is that our God is not distant and removed,。
but our God is present and active in the world at this time.。
And it's a profound thing that God shapes his church over years and years and years。
by the use of his prophetic voice.。
In fact, the apostle John, as he's writing at the end of the New Testament。
about the end of all things,。
as on the Isle of Patmos, he gets this vision of what the world would be like at the end of all things.。
The start of that vision begins with words to the churches.。
And so he sees the churches in Asia Minor, which were the churches in his time.。
And he sees a picture of Jesus standing over those churches, and Jesus speaks some words.。
And these words are really important.。
Jesus stands over the church and he says this.。
He says, "Let those who have ears, let them hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches."。
Say that again.。
"Those that have ears, let them hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches."。
And for 2000 years, the Spirit has been speaking to the church.。
Our Anglican friends use that prayer a lot in their services, in the liturgy of their services,。
that they might hear what the Spirit is saying to the church.。
This is what has driven Vision Sunday here at the Vine over the last 15 years。
that we've been doing Vision Sunday.。
That we have a God who is speaking to us.。
And I think now more than ever in history,。
even off the back of all the things that we saw happen last night in the Middle East,。
with everything that's taken place in the uprising of this world,。
in the shaking that seems to be happening in the foundations across this world,。
our God is still alive and he is still speaking.。
And the beauty is, is that we as his people,。
we have a role to play in the environment of a speaking God.。
And our role is to recognize that he is speaking.。
It's to quieten ourselves enough that we can hear his voice,。
understand it, then internalize it, proclaim it, and live it.。
We do not have a God speaking problem in the world today.。
Amen?。
But I do think at times we have a listening and acting on that word problem in the church today.。
Can I say that again one more time?。
I don't think we have a problem in the world today with God speaking.。
I think the challenge is, is the church listening and responding?。
And one of the beautiful things is, is that when God's word comes,。
it is the only thing in this world that brings people fully alive.。
This is one of the things that has been woven into the fabric of our creation。
as human beings made in the image of God.。
That if we want to come fully alive,。
if we want to really be the people that God has called us to be,。
the only way that happens is that we become people of the word of God.。
That when God's living word speaks, we receive, we respond, and we act.。
That's what makes us the people of God.。
There's this moment in the New Testament at the end of the gospel of Luke,。
where Jesus appears in his resurrection to two disciples。
who are walking on the road to Emmaus.。
And Jesus has just died on the cross.。
And these two disciples are wrestling with all that's happening in the world.。
And they had thought Jesus was the Messiah,。
but then they'd just seen him die on the cross.。
And so they're thinking, "Okay, well, I guess he wasn't what he claimed to be.。
I guess he's just a prophet."。
And Jesus comes alongside of them, and Jesus does this amazing thing.。
And if you could ever transform into one moment in history, this is the moment.。
Jesus opens up the Old Testament narrative to help them to understand。
how he is the culmination of everything that was spoken about him in the Old Testament.。
Could you imagine what?。
That is the greatest sermon that was ever preached.。
Jesus saying, "Let me tell you the story of Israel,。
and how I am the centerpiece of that story.。
And my death and resurrection now begins a new journey of that story."。
And later, as those two disciples are sitting, having a meal with Jesus,。
Jesus takes bread, he breaks it, he offers it to them.。
They realize, their eyes are open, they realize who he is, and he disappears from them.。
I don't know how that happened, but it happened.。
And as Jesus disappears, they turn to each other, and here's what they say.。
They say, "Were not our hearts burning within us when he spoke the word over us?"。
In other words, they were like,。
"Have we ever been more fully alive than right now?"。
Like we've just had the Messiah speak to us, and we've received it,。
and it's turned and changed us and transformed us.。
And he is alive, and he is who he says he was.。
The word of God always brings his people alive.。
And so Vision Sunday, the reason why I get so excited about Vision Sunday,。
is because we take one Sunday a year to unpack as a leadership here in the church,。
what we think the word of God is saying to us.。
And the reason why we do it is 'cause our desperate cry and prayer。
is that you would become fully alive.。
The very people that God has called you to be.。
Like, could you imagine how Hong Kong would be transformed。
if in the churches of the city, people were truly fully alive?。
Truly the people that God had called them and created them to be.。
So as I start Vision Sunday here in 2026,。
here's my prayer for us.。
That as we peel back a little bit and take a look at some of the things。
that God is saying to us,。
that something inside of you will be like those two disciples on the road to Emmaus.。
That something would burn within you.。
And I'm gonna talk about a lot of things here, just warning you up front.。
There's a lot of information coming.。
But it's not just information, it is revelation.。
And I want you, as I go through this,。
to be prayerful in receiving what I'm saying.。
Does that make sense?。
I'm hoping you do that every Sunday in sermons,。
but I'm not just gonna assume that.。
So I wanna encourage you to be prayerful as I speak,。
because I believe that there is something I'm going to say。
where you will feel your heart burning within you.。
And as that happens, that's for you to go,。
that's important for me.。
'Cause what I'm gonna share today is absolutely what God is saying.。
And we've discerned this as an eldership,。
as a staff, as our pastors and leaders,。
we've discerned this.。
This is what God is saying to us as a corporate body,。
as a community ourselves.。
But it is also what I think God is saying to you.。
And I think in 2026, by having to pull you more alive,。
I'm gonna be sharing,。
there's something in this that is specific to you.。
No one is in this room, no one is online right now.。
Hi to everybody online.。
Nobody is in our overflow right now.。
Hi to everybody in the overflow.。
In fact, if you're in the overflow, can you wave right now at me?。
Yeah, come on, do it.。
I can see, yeah, I can't see you.。
No, you're just waving, you're waving at a screen.。
That's fine, that's good.。
But I believe that no one's here by mistake.。
So what I'm gonna say, something is significant for you.。
Is that right?。
Come on church, is that all right?。
Can I pray?。
Lord, just thank you so much。
that we get to gather in a room like this,。
gather in a city like this.。
Lord, we love Hong Kong.。
And that we get to hear your speaking voice to us.。
Lord, without your vision, people perish.。
But with your vision and your word, people come alive.。
So Lord, I pray that as we open this up, we would come alive.。
And that Lord, there would be something in this。
that would grab a hold of our hearts。
and that would move us to act.。
And we thank you for this in Jesus' name.。
Every one of us says, amen.。
I think what's really important to know right up front。
is that I am not bringing or releasing today a new vision.。
Our vision has not changed here at the Vine.。
It has not changed since 2013.。
And our vision is the vision that God has given us.。
And today is not about communicating to you a new vision.。
What it is though, is communicating to you a new way。
for us to understand the working of that vision。
in this current season.。
Back in 2013, a few months before I became senior pastor。
here at the Vine, I took over from John and Tony。
who had led this church so faithfully.。
And I'm just, he's gonna hate me for this,。
but Tony's sitting right here.。
And he was one of our founding pastors at the Vine.。
I think on Vision Sunday, it's always important。
to honor and recognize.。
And I know John and Sandra, our other two founding pastors。
are watching online right now as well.。
So we love you guys too.。
And thank you for all that you do.。
Can we give John and Sandra a round of applause as well.。
God has been building for many years.。
And so a few months prior to me taking over as senior pastor,。
the Lord spoke to me about the vision He wanted for us。
in this season.。
And He said, "Andrew, I don't want you to grow a big church.。
I want you to grow big people."。
And so that is our vision.。
It's three words.。
Hopefully if you've been coming here, you've heard it before.。
Growing big people.。
Very simple, very easy.。
You can very much remember that.。
That is the vision of the Vine Church.。
Not to grow a big church per se, but to grow big people.。
And as God was speaking to me about this,。
He took me to Ephesians chapter four。
and to that glorious passage where Paul writes to his church。
and says, "This is how Jesus matures us."。
The idea of growing big people is the idea of maturing in Christ Jesus,。
becoming more like Him.。
So I want to read to you the founding passage。
that we have as a church with this vision of growing big people.。
It's from Ephesians four, starting in verse 11.。
It says, "It was He who gave some to be apostles,。
some to be prophets, some to be evangelists,。
some to be pastors and teachers,。
to prepare God's people for works of service,。
so that the body of Christ may be built up。
until we all reach unity in the faith。
and in the knowledge of the Son of God."。
And notice this, "And become mature,。
attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ."。
This is what it means for us to grow big people here at the Vine.。
And this is our vision passage.。
I love what Paul says.。
He says, "You want to know how exciting the church is?。
It's like by His Spirit, God works in the people of an environment like this,。
where they bring their gifts and they serve one another.。
And through works of service,。
there's unity in the knowledge of the Son of God.。
And they grow in that and they become," Paul says, "mature."。
And he defines it, he says,。
"Attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Jesus."。
Our heart for you here at the Vine。
is whether you're with us for two weeks, two months, two years, two decades,。
is that during that period of time, you would have grown in Christ Jesus.。
You would feel like you've reflect more of His character,。
more of His heart, that you're living more sacrificially。
to the things that He's called you to live on.。
That you would feel more alive, more as you are created to be than ever before.。
That's the whole point of why we gather here every week,。
is that you would know in your lifetime。
what it is to attain to the whole measure of the fullness of Jesus.。
Now, that's our vision.。
We've had that for a number of years.。
And what God has done is He's opened that vision to us。
in different ways of thinking about it over the last number of years.。
I want to very quickly just show you this,。
because I think it's important to honor the word that has been spoken before。
and see how this now adds to the word that He's speaking today.。
So when we first released this back in 2013,。
from 2013 to 2016, in that period,。
we had this thing called "Pathways of Maturity."。
It was just our way of helping to explain to the church。
that there are seven biblical pathways by which God matures His people.。
And so for a number of years in that period,。
we taught from the pulpit about what those pathways were,。
and we called people.。
Was anyone here for the Pathways of Maturity season?。
Let me see your hands, raise them nice and high.。
Come on. Okay, that's a number of you.。
Do you feel like you're more like Jesus today?。
You look like you're more like Jesus.。
You're older, you're older.。
That's part of it, part of it there, Richard.。
So we taught you guys.。
Now, here's the irony.。
During that season, even though our focus was on discipleship。
and explaining what growing big people in Ephesians 4 was all about,。
here's what happened.。
The church grew.。
In fact, the church dramatically grew.。
From about a thousand people in 2013,。
we were about two and a half thousand people by the end of 2016.。
So we had more than doubled in our growth,。
even though God said, "Don't grow a big church, grow big people."。
But it's funny, right?。
You focus on your discipleship,。
and people want to come and be a part of that.。
But that created some challenge for us.。
We realized that we were expanding more and more on Sundays,。
but we were worried that we were growing breadth, but not depth.。
And so the next season, God said, is "Call to Community."。
So from 2017 to 2018, we spent a number of years telling the church,。
"Your best discipleship and growth will not happen。
when you gather for 90 minutes on a Sunday.。
It's actually going to happen when you commit yourself。
to a small group of people where you are known and you know them,。
where you're doing life with them, you're accountable with them,。
you have prayer together, you grow together.。
Small community is where we grow the most."。
And we still say this almost every week here at The Mind,。
that this is not the be all and end all 90 minutes right now.。
What really will help you dramatically change in Christ Jesus。
is by committing yourself to walking with people who truly know you,。
who understand your struggles, understand your sin,。
know your brokenness, love you just the same,。
pray for you, walk with you, and you're doing the same with them.。
There is nothing more profound than the gift of community.。
So for two years, we talked about that.。
Then after that, here's the cool thing.。
Just a few months before the protest movement in 2019,。
in the summer of 2019, turned our city upside down.。
And then in 2020, COVID turned the world upside down.。
Just a few months before that, God came to us and said,。
"You need to start thinking about church differently.。
You need to start thinking about church, not as a building,。
a one location thing, but as almost like a river flowing through Hong Kong.。
And if you can shift your way of thinking about church。
from being a gathering in a building to church being God's people。
in spheres of influence all over the city,。
taking the hope of the gospel and watering it in their spheres of influence,。
that's what church really is," Jesus was saying.。
And I want you, as you see the three things,。
this was the river model in 2019-20, take a look at the screen.。
As you see this, this is the progression of God's spoken word to us here at the Vine.。
Mature in Jesus, do that through community,。
and make sure you now understand that church should be different。
than how you think of it.。
Not one building, one location, I've got to go there to be a part of church,。
but we are the church, the people.。
And as we live out the faith of the gospel。
in whatever sphere of influence He's placed us in,。
that's where church takes place.。
Now, it was so prophetic that God spoke that to us。
just a few months before Hong Kong turned upside down,。
and we weren't able to host services in this building。
because of the protests that were happening just here in Wan Chai.。
And then COVID came and global church got shut down for however long it was.。
Isn't it amazing that we have a speaking God?。
Come on, church.。
Isn't it amazing that that prophetic voice prepared us。
for what was about to take place?。
So that was the next season.。
And then just recently last year at Vision Sunday,。
I stood before you all, and I said something that sounded very scary,。
and to be honest, it's still scary today,。
and that is that we're in a season that we're calling uncharted from 2025 onwards,。
which is this idea that God is saying,。
"Okay, I've told you to mature.。
I've asked you to be in community.。
I've redefined how you think about church.。
Now you're ready for adventure."。
Do you see how God works over many years to shape a church community?。
He's like, "Now you're ready for adventure.。
Now you're ready to really trust me.。
Now you're ready to get out there."。
The whole uncharted season we spoke about at Vision Sunday last year。
is this idea that God has come and taken us out of our comfort zone,。
that God has placed us.。
The picture we had was like, we're out on uncharted waters.。
We're literally somewhere where we no longer have a map。
or a strategy for how we should be.。
We have to completely trust that God is in control.。
And I think as we see what happens in the Middle East overnight,。
it just is another reminder to us that we're living in an uncharted time in our world,。
that we are out of our comfort zone,。
that we don't always have the answers,。
that we don't always know what's going to happen next,。
that things do get scary, that things are hard.。
And Jesus is being saying to us,。
"This is actually where I want my church.。
I don't want my church to be in a safe bubble on a hill somewhere.。
I want my church to be out in uncharted waters,。
pioneering something new in the world today,。
to be that hope in a time of crisis,。
to be a place of love when everybody's talking about hate,。
to actually show the world that there's another way to live。
than the broken times that they're living in."。
That's uncharted.。
And that's where He wants us to be.。
And I remember when I shared this to us last year and we talked about it,。
I think all of us were like, "Really?"。
Like we would prefer another time.。
And I would love to stand before you today and say,。
"Don't worry, uncharted's finished."。
But unfortunately, I'm standing before you today and saying,。
"We are just getting started, okay, in this time of uncharted."。
And unfortunately, things didn't get even more uncomfortable。
and even more messy.。
And I'll tell you about that in a little moment.。
But alongside of this season of uncharted,。
we had a picture, didn't we, of a sailing ship.。
We spoke about this last year.。
And the sailing ship was this idea that the Vine is like this ship。
that has gone out from safe harbor, from what we know,。
out into this place of uncharted waters and uncharted times.。
We don't have a map.。
We don't have a strategy.。
We don't know where we're going.。
We're just going to have to trust that the captain on the ship。
is leading us in the right direction.。
And as we talked about that picture,。
and we mentioned that picture a number of times last year,。
many of you sent emails or spoke to our pastors or came up to us and said,。
"I'm in a season of uncharted in my life."。
You know, and I feel like I'm on that boat or that ship in uncharted waters.。
And, you know, it's kind of scary, but it's exciting.。
It's a season of adventure, blah, blah.。
I know this resonated with many of you.。
Well, towards the end of last year, I was just spending time praying and saying,。
"God, what is really on your heart for this season of uncharted?。
What is the next thing?"。
And it was interesting because God, as He so often does,。
often when He wants to tell me the next thing,。
either in my own private life or here at the Vine, He tells me off.。
You know, He sort of says,。
"Here's something you need to remember.。
Here's something that you haven't done right,。
or here's something that you need to address."。
And I saw a picture of the Vine as a ship, if you will, out on uncharted waters.。
But as I saw it, as I was praying in this vision,。
I could see that the ship was not sailing with purpose or intent.。
Instead, the ship was moving around based on the waves that were hitting it。
and the current of the water of the ocean and how it was moving it.。
So in other words, as I saw this ship in uncharted waters,。
it wasn't like the ship was sailing well in that space.。
It felt like the ship was drifting,。
what was kind of like moving around and pushed back by some of the waves。
and some of the current.。
And I saw this and I sensed God saying, "This is dangerous."。
And one of the temptations in a time of uncharted as a church community。
is to sort of think that because we can't have the map or strategy,。
then everything's kind of like just nothing for us to do.。
And we're just going to kind of sit there with our arms crossed.。
If we do that, we end up drifting.。
As I was praying and I saw this, I wrote something down。
that I thought the Lord was saying to me,。
but then I think he's saying it to us.。
Let me read this to you.。
This is from my diary that I wrote at that time.。
I said, "Yes, this is an uncharted season."。
This is Jesus speaking.。
"Yes, you are to wait for my leading.。
Yes, you are to go wherever it is that I decide to send you.。
But that doesn't mean you have no responsibilities along the way.。
It doesn't mean that you're mere passengers.。
No, you're not passengers, you're sailors.。
And it's time to set sail."。
Oh, yeah.。
Now, it sounds great, but I realized what the Lord was saying is,。
"You're drifting.。
You're kind of just going with the way that the waves are pushing you."。
And as he began to speak this, and I was beginning to get excited,。
he's like, "You've forgotten what was actually in that foundation scripture。
I gave you for growing big people."。
He's like, "Read it again."。
And I did.。
And as I read it, he said, "Keep reading."。
So what I read to you earlier is up to verse 13.。
Let me now read you verse 14,。
which is the next verse, funnily enough, straight after it.。
It says this, "Then," Paul says,。
"we will no longer be infants tossed back and forth by the waves,。
blown here and there by every wind of teaching。
and the cunning and craftiness of people in their deceitful scheming."。
It's funny to me that after Paul says,。
"This is what it means to grow big people.。
Do all of these things so that you can attain to the whole measure,。
the wholeness of Christ."。
He's saying, "If you don't, then here's what happens.。
You're just going to drift.。
The waves and the ocean current is going to be what moves you.。
It's going to be like there's these forces working against you."。
It's interesting that in the Old Testament,。
when the Old Testament speaks about this idea of sin and evil。
and evil forces in the world, it uses imagery of the ocean.。
It's one of the most profound things.。
Can you hear it?。
Can you imagine what it's like?。
Okay, take a minute for a moment.。
Close your eyes.。
I want you to close your eyes.。
Can you close your eyes on me?。
Oh yeah, you didn't expect this when you came to church today.。
That's okay.。
You're on the ship.。
The wind is howling.。
But the ship is not catching the wind.。
And instead, it's being buffeted by the waves and by the current of the ocean.。
And it is drifting.。
Okay, open your eyes again.。
If we're not really careful, we will be in a situation where, yes, we're in uncharted waters.。
But the direction we're heading is being defined for us more by what the world is trying to say to us,。
by sin and darkness and evil, than what the Word of God is speaking into us.。
And as I was wrestling with this idea, I could come to understand that this is what God is saying.。
He's like, "Hey, come on."。
He's like, "I'm at work here. I'm doing things. I'm at work."。
But you've got to be careful that you don't just end up drifting and staying immature.。
Let me say it this way.。
To be immature is to drift on the currents of the ocean.。
To be mature is to catch the wind.。
Are you following this?。
And this is what Paul's saying to the church.。
He's like, "Here's how you stay in immaturity.。
You just allow the waves and the currents of the world to define you and shape you.。
Here's how you move forward in purpose and intent.。
Even if you don't know the direction you're going, it is not for you to know the direction.。
That's for me.。
But your job is to catch the wind.。
Your job is to put up your sails.。
Your job is to be a sailor.。
It is time to set sail.。
It's funny because I was at a memorial service back in January.。
And as I was sitting in this memorial service, I looked to my right and lo and behold,。
I was sitting next to Jackie Pullinger.。
So Jackie may be well known to a number of you.。
She's a good friend here of the Vine, which has been amazing.。
Jackie's been a missionary, really, a pastor and leader to our city for 60 years.。
Originally called as a young woman to come and serve in the walled city in Kowloon,。
working with drug addicts, helping drug addicts come off drugs through the power of prayer.。
And she's built a ministry around that for 60 years.。
She's still here in Hong Kong now in her 80s, still doing the work,。
working with drug addicts, praying for them and helping them to come off of drug addiction here in Hong Kong.。
I was sitting next to her and we were just chatting together.。
And she leans over to me at one point before the service starts.。
And she goes, Andrew, have I told you about my sailing club?。
And I thought, this is funny.。
I mean, I literally was like, this is funny because I was imagining this lovely 80 year old woman。
and a bunch of heroin addicts out on these boats in Hong Kong somewhere.。
And I'm like, really?。
Like, that's a picture, right?。
And I said to her, like, you mean like sailing, like you're taking the boys out on these boats?。
She's like, oh, no, no, no, no, no.。
She's like, I'm not interested in yachts, Andrew.。
She said, no, no, no, I'm teaching them to catch the wind of the spirit.。
She's saying, I'm teaching my boys how to be sailors.。
And she's like this, she's like, the wind of God's spirit is blowing all around.。
It's time for us to catch it, she said.。
And I'm like, this is exactly what the Holy Spirit is saying to us.。
It's so cool how when God speaks, He doesn't speak to one person or one church,。
but He has a unified voice in the church of God.。
And as she's saying this to me, I'm feeling my heart beating。
because God is saying exactly the same thing to us at that time.。
And she's so excited because, and she says this, she's like, we don't have a wind problem.。
Some of us have wind problems, so we're not going to go there.。
Okay, so she said, we don't have a wind problem.。
In other words, God is at work.。
The issue is not the wind.。
The issue is, do we have enough sailors?。
Jesus said it this way, didn't He?。
He said, the harvest is plentiful, but the harvesters are few.。
I don't know if you've noticed this, but I believe that we're in a season。
where the Holy Spirit is blowing on the world more than ever before.。
I don't know if you've seen some of the amazing things that are happening.。
You follow it on social media, you might be picking up。
in the various Christian kind of networks that you have,。
but we're seeing God's Spirit at work.。
We're seeing this quiet revival happening in the UK,。
where young people are coming back to Jesus。
and flooding back into the church like never before.。
We're seeing what we saw in Asbury University in Kentucky a few years ago,。
more recently in Southeastern University in Florida.。
But we're also seeing the Spirit moving here in Asia.。
Churches growing, God doing stuff.。
It is an incredibly exciting season.。
And people are talking about, like, we're on the cusp of revival.。
And I'm like, yeah, that's exciting, because we see it happening in other places.。
But I'm like, I think it's actually happening here.。
Like, I think the Holy Spirit is happening here.。
I think the wind of the Spirit is blowing here.。
And I think the excitement for us in the season that we're in,。
in this Uncharted, is not to allow the waves and the current to drift us.。
Wherever it wants.。
No, there's purpose and intent.。
We put up the sails to catch the wind that's already blowing.。
G. Campbell Morgan, one of the great writers on revival,。
he wrote this, and I read this the other day.。
I want to read this to you.。
He said, "We cannot organize revival,。
but we can set our sails to catch the wind from heaven。
when God chooses to blow upon His people again."。
I think God is choosing to blow upon His people here at the Vine.。
I'm going to say that one more time,。
because that did not get the reaction I was hoping for.。
I believe God's wind of the Spirit is blowing on you.。
Yeah.。
And I believe we're being invited into a season to put up our sails.。
And what we've been doing as a leadership over the last few months,。
our elders, our senior leadership team, our pastoral team, our staff,。
we've been praying and saying, "God, okay, we get the picture.。
You're blowing.。
You're at work.。
We don't want to drift.。
What are the sails that we need to put up?"。
And so what I want to do now for the rest of our time together。
is just tell you about these sails.。
There's four of them that we feel the Lord is inviting the Vine to lean into,。
to put up in this season.。
And as we do this, though,。
this is not just for the Vine as a church corporately.。
This is for you individually, like I said earlier.。
So I think what the Lord is saying,。
"Hey, put these sails up to catch the Spirit。
of what I'm doing here at the Vine in this season。
are the sails that I want to invite you to think about putting up in your life。
to move in the direction that He has for you。
and for you to come truly, fully alive."。
Here's the important thing.。
We cannot direct the wind.。
Amen.。
That's uncharted.。
That's not our responsibility.。
That's God's responsibility.。
We cannot direct the wind, but we can adjust our sails.。
And so I want to tell you about the sails that we're adjusting.。
Are you ready?。
Excited?。
All right.。
Here's the first one.。
We feel that Lord is saying this.。
The first thing that we must put up, the sail that we must put up。
to catch the wind that is blowing is this beautiful idea。
and sail of the presence of the Holy Spirit.。
Isn't that cool?。
See, the presence of the Holy Spirit is blowing upon us.。
And we're in a season at the moment where we believe。
that the Spirit of God is working here at the Vine like never before.。
I don't know if you felt it as you come in on Sundays,。
but there's something different happening amongst us.。
Amen.。
There's something significant taking place.。
When we gather and we sing, but it's not just happening here.。
It's happening across our different ministries and across our different places,。
our different ways that we express church and community here at the Vine.。
There's something significant that's happening with the wind of the Spirit,。
the presence of God to heal and transform and to renew.。
And one of the things that we sense as a leadership is。
we got to put up the sail to catch the wind that is blowing.。
There is nothing more sad than the Spirit at work in a church。
when the church is actively pushing against the work of that Spirit.。
And how do we position ourselves with our sails to catch that wind?。
Well, it's going to require something that is going to be difficult for all of us.。
It's going to require us to prioritize His presence by slowing down.。
Say that again.。
It's going to require prioritization of His presence to slow down.。
As we make more room and more time for the Holy Spirit,。
He will transform your life.。
As you take more time and more room for the Holy Spirit,。
He will transform your life.。
And we are going to therefore reshape how we gather,。
reshape our services, reshape our ministries。
so that we're making intentional time to listen, receive,。
and respond to the work of the Holy Spirit amongst us.。
And that's going to require you to slow down。
to receive what the Spirit is saying to you.。
One of the things that I want to say,。
and I'm going to say it boldly, and I'm not going to apologize for it.。
One of the things that has frustrated me over the last year here at The Vine。
is that so often when I'm preaching on a Sunday,。
the very last word I might say in my sermon as I pray is "Amen."。
And I can't tell you how many of you then stand up and leave.。
Let me just say this.。
It is going to require you to slow down to catch the Holy Spirit.。
The most important thing that happens here at The Vine。
is not the worship, and it is not what I say.。
The most important thing is what God wants to say to you.。
And that can happen in the sermon, and that can happen in the worship,。
and it does, and it's awesome.。
But we are going to be making space at the end.。
The worship and the sermon move us to a place where we can receive.。
And I want to say that we need a culture here at The Vine。
of slowing down to receive what the Holy Spirit has to say.。
And I want to invite you to consider your role in that.。
I understand sometimes we have to leave.。
There's appointments, there's kids.。
I get it.。
But I think we've got a bit too much of a culture right now。
where we think the most important thing is the thing that the pastor says.。
The most important thing is what Jesus wants to say to you.。
And opening your heart to that and slowing down to receive it。
will change your life.。
Nothing I will say will ever change your life.。
I hope what I say will inspire you。
and open your heart to what Jesus wants to say to you.。
That's the role that I have as a preacher and pastor,。
is to lead you into a deeper encounter with Jesus.。
But I will never change you.。
Only Jesus will change you.。
So we need to prioritize space for Jesus to truly minister.。
Helpful?。
That's the first one.。
Here's the second one.。
The second one that we're going to put up。
is the sale of radical discipleship.。
Now, this is really exciting.。
And I want you to see how this flows。
and all of this begins to build on each other.。
So as we lean into more of the work of the Holy Spirit in our lives,。
whenever there is a season of greater encounter with the Holy Spirit。
that is always followed by a call to deeper and more radical discipleship.。
Come on, church.。
Whenever this takes place and you make space for this in your life,。
you will be transformed.。
You will be renewed.。
You will be deeper in your commitment to Jesus.。
You will have more of His character at work in your life.。
The fruit of the Spirit will be shown more in your life.。
Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control。
will burn up into your life as the Spirit moves.。
And as you allow yourself to be changed and transformed by that Spirit, you will grow.。
Radical discipleship is to recognize that not only is it,。
I want more of the Spirit, it's also the Spirit saying, I want more of you.。
Come on, church.。
It's not just us saying, I want more of the Spirit.。
It's God saying, okay, great.。
Here's my Spirit so that you would change.。
You would transform.。
You would be refined.。
You would repent.。
You would be convicted.。
You would have a movement in your life where my Spirit changes you, roughs out your edges.。
You become more compassionate, more loving, more serving, more hopeful, more the person.。
I want you to be in the Spirit of influence that I've placed you in.。
That's discipleship.。
It's not just becoming more like Jesus, but in becoming more like Jesus,。
we become more of Jesus in the world.。
Changing and transforming the Spirit of influence that He places in.。
This is important.。
So one of the things as a leadership, as we prayed and talked about this sale,。
is we've sensed God say, look, you've told the church that we're growing big people.。
Now tell them the commitments you're looking for to shape that discipleship within the church.。
So we came up with these things called the guiding principles.。
You're going to hear a lot more about this in the weeks and months ahead.。
In fact, I'm going to be teaching next week specifically on these guiding principles.。
But let me read to you what we're sensing.。
So the Vine Church is a community of people on a journey together to become more like Jesus.。
That's our vision, growing big people.。
Our goal, notice this, is not to be perfect in achievement, but purposeful in pursuit.。
Can I have an amen?。
We are serious about maturing in Christ and expanding His kingdom.。
And we understand that this is a gracious work of the Holy Spirit.。
It's not our effort.。
It is the work of the Spirit.。
But we open ourselves to that work.。
In our community, we walk with the Spirit by embracing a lifestyle。
centered on the following commitments.。
And we've said that there are five things we feel,。
if we want to grow in Christ Jesus in the season we're in right now,。
these five things are important.。
Number one, surrendered to Scripture.。
Not just people who read Scripture, as important as that is,。
but be surrendered to Scripture.。
Allow the Word of God to be the ultimate driving force,。
the ultimate compass in our lives.。
Surrender to Scripture.。
Secondly, priority of presence.。
This is these two things right here.。
Surrender to Scripture, priority of presence.。
Making that presence known and felt in our lives.。
Number three, centered on Jesus.。
We are nothing other than followers and believers in Jesus.。
When Jesus said, "Deny yourself, pick up your cross and come after me."。
He was literally saying, "Center yourself on me."。
And whenever churches drift from the centrality of Jesus,。
they become very dangerous, manipulative places.。
Churches have to stay centered on Jesus.。
Believers in Jesus have to stay centered on Jesus.。
And when we drift, we become the worst versions of ourselves.。
So Jesus is the priority.。
Then, focused on renewal.。
I love this thought of the fact that we are called as Christians。
to renew the world around us.。
We're to be focused on renewal.。
That is to see the kingdom of God come in our spheres of influence,。
in our workplace, in our schools, in our environments, in our families.。
That's what we want.。
And then finally, and this is perhaps one of the most key,。
is rooted in relationship.。
We do this by being in relationship with one another.。
Not separate from one another, not our own saviors.。
We're rooted in Christ, centered in Him.。
We're working together, rooted in relationship together.。
These five things you're going to be hearing a lot more about。
over the years ahead are going to reshape a lot of how we do our ministries here,。
a lot of how we teach here,。
a lot of how we begin to put these cells up to catch the wind.。
Is this helpful for you so far?。
Everybody okay?。
All right, let me give you the final two.。
Here's one.。
This is, and this flows nicely on again from the others.。
This is the sale of bearing witness.。
We're calling it bearing witness.。
Now this is a great, by the way,。
how awesome is all the design that are on these cells?。
This is our creative team, Balana actually did these designs。
and our creative team have done all this.。
I love it, I love it.。
Now follow with me, church, follow with me.。
More of the Holy Spirit transforming and changing us.。
But if all we do is stop on this side of the ship,。
all we're going to do then is be a really cool bless me club in a building.。
Are you with me?。
We have to shift to bear witness.。
This draws from the idea of Acts chapter one, verse eight,。
where Jesus says, "Power will come upon you when you receive my spirit。
and you will become my witnesses in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria,。
and to the ends of the world."。
In other words, I'm not moving on the church so that you'll become a bless me club.。
I'm not moving on the church so you're like something up on a hill。
and everything like that.。
I'm moving on the church so that the church can move on the world.。
Think about it this way.。
I think what church does when people come to Christ,。
it's like it empties the world, that's awesome.。
But then the church should empty itself back into the world.。
There's this flow of happening.。
And so bearing witness is the idea of us being that public faith。
we spoke about last year, of having the joy in us,。
to be people of Jesus proudly in the places that he's planted us in,。
sharing the gospel.。
And so what we want to do over the coming years。
is to help all of us be better equipped to share the gospel,。
whether that's with our colleagues, with our family members.。
Many of you in this room are first generation Christians,。
only Christian in your family.。
How do we help you to equip you to share your life and your testimony。
and your love of Jesus effectively to the people around you?。
We want to help you to do that。
because we believe that God is calling us to grow the kingdom.。
So it's about bringing the gospel to Hong Kong。
in a window of grace that we currently have in our city.。
But it's also not just about speaking the gospel,。
it's about living the gospel.。
It's about justice.。
And this has been always one of the central focuses。
and hearts of the Vine is this area of justice.。
And in this bearing witness, it's not just about sharing the gospel,。
it's also about living out the priorities of a heart of justice,。
serving the poor and the vulnerable and the marginalized,。
using our resources to do that,。
spreading around Asia the idea of God's heart for justice.。
It's one of the things that I'm convinced is lost in the church at this time.。
What does it really mean for us to hold a heart of evangelism and justice。
in the church in the season ahead?。
That's bearing witness.。
Here's the final one.。
And this one is perhaps the one that I get really excited about.。
This is the sale.。
See the symbol there?。
The sale of church planting.。
Now, you know that we've been speaking to you guys。
about church planting quite a lot over the last little season.。
In fact, God has been speaking to us about this。
for probably five plus years now.。
But church planting and why it's a bowl and stuff,。
we'll tell you about that in a few weeks time。
when we talk more about this.。
But church planting has been on our heart for some season.。
God has always said this to us,。
but just during my sabbatical in 2024,。
God said something very clear to me.。
He said, "Andrew, my excitement for the future of the vine。
is not its seating capacity, but its sending capacity."。
Not its seating capacity, but its sending capacity.。
And so this drives what we're sensing the Lord wants us to do.。
We want to grow God's kingdom in the church.。
We don't want to just keep adding services.。
We want to see people come to faith,。
but we don't want to just try to keep people coming into one place.。
When a church is planted in a specific community,。
it can reach the needs of that community more than ever before.。
And so over the years, we've done this.。
So here's a map of Hong Kong.。
I want you to have a look at this.。
We've been here in Wan Chai since 2011.。
We had our first services in here in 2011.。
Prior to that, we founded as a church in '97。
and we moved throughout Hong Kong,。
but we came to this current home in 2011.。
Now back in October of 2023,。
right when everybody else was like kind of closing down shop because of COVID,。
we planted a new church.。
We sent out a bunch of us to Yuen Long.。
We held our first services in our church in Yuen Long in October of 2023.。
Pastor Tim, who's the lead pastor there,。
Pastor Ivan, June, and Chapman, and the others that work with them。
are doing an amazing job.。
In 2023 October, we sent out 30 people from Wan Chai。
to go and plant this church in Yuen Long.。
They now, just three years later, have 350 people gathered。
on a weekly basis there, which is amazing.。
And a number of those are people that are new to Jesus,。
people that are coming to faith。
through the work that's planted there, and we love it.。
Now towards the end of last year,。
we told you the exciting news that we're about to plant again.。
We said that God had called us。
to the northern metropolis side of Hong Kong。
and that Sidney and Vivian Yip were feeling the call as pastors here。
to go and plant a church there.。
And I'm excited to tell you today the actual location.。
We're going to be planting in Sheung Shui.。
So there's a church plant that is going to be happening in Sheung Shui,。
which is really exciting for multiple reasons.。
They have a booth downstairs.。
So right after the service, if you want to connect with them。
and chat with the people, they've got, funnily enough,。
they've got 30 people right now that are excited about going with them。
to plant a church in Sheung Shui.。
And we're hoping to start services there in the next couple of months.。
Now, what's really important to know about our church plant in Sheung Shui。
is that it's different to what we're doing in Wan Chai and in Yuen Long.。
They're not going to be a Sunday gathering centric church.。
They're going to be a discipleship and community centered church.。
What that means is, and I love this,。
they're not going to find, at least currently,。
not going to find a physical place to renovate and build。
to have Sunday services.。
Instead, what they've discerned as a team。
is that God is asking them to rent.。
This is quite radical, quite risky, quite exciting,。
renting a shop front on one of the busiest streets in Sheung Shui,。
right near the MTR, a shop front,。
renovating about a thousand square feet there,。
not to hold services, but actually to do community outreach。
Monday to Friday from that place.。
Now, what they're going to do then is they're going to partner。
with a church in Sheung Shui who only have services in the morning,。
and they're going to hold their service in the afternoon in that church。
so that they don't have to buy, renovate, make whatever.。
They're going to put their resources into the outreach。
rather than into the gathering.。
Does that make sense?。
I love this vision.。
And so they're going to, we've already worked to help to find,。
and they're working hard to find a shop front.。
And so when we sent Yun Long out,。
we said that we were going to support them.。
We're going to do the same with Sheung Shui.。
And let me tell you about that in a second.。
So these are the four cells.。
Does that sound good?。
Does that excite you to a degree?。
Part of vision is to resource, and God always resources the vision.。
So let me just very quickly, as we draw to a close,。
tell you about the resourcing we need.。
Now, I want to be honest with you to say this.。
We don't know everything that we need.。
There may be stuff happening around the corner that we're not aware of.。
So we don't know everything that we need right now,。
but we do have an idea of some of the critical pieces for this step。
where we do need to raise some money.。
And that's what we're going to be inviting all of you。
across our services today to stand together as one church。
in raising resource towards this.。
First of all, on this side, we're wanting to raise about $1.5 million。
for this side, if you will, of the sales.。
One of the things that we recognize here in our building in Wan Chai。
is that oftentimes the building works against us。
when it comes to wanting to deepen community and growth and discipleship.。
You'll know this very well, particularly if you're here at the 11 o'clock most weeks.。
It's like we get like, you know, 800 of us flowing into the room。
and then flowing out of the room.。
And it feels like there's no place to linger.。
There's no place to slow down.。
There's no place to actually get to know each other, get connected.。
And as well as changing the structure of our services to help with that,。
we also want to change some of the structure of our building to help with that.。
So we're looking to raise $1.5 million today to help renovate。
some of the spaces here in Wan Chai so that you will have a better place to go,。
to connect, to build community, to be discipled.。
We've got some ideas.。
You're going to hear about them in the weeks ahead,。
but we're hoping to raise about $1.5 million to renovate some of our space for that.。
On this side of the equation, first of all, with the idea of bearing witness,。
we're looking to raise $1 million today in this area for development of our justice work。
that we do as a church, $1 million.。
Most of that will probably go to the development of our conference.。
If you've been here at the Vine, you'll know that we've run a justice conference.。
We had run it for about nine years prior to 2019.。
And then from 2019 to 2025, it was shut down because of all the things that were happening.。
We started it again last September.。
It was a great success.。
And we want to get some seed funding to be able to continue to grow that conference,。
not just in Hong Kong, but around Asia.。
And with that, we believe that the Lord is asking the Vine to be a place where we can。
gather people and teach them about a heart for justice, gather practitioners and leaders from。
around the world into these conferences in Asia to really deepen our understanding of。
God's heart for justice.。
It costs us about 500,000 Hong Kong to run a conference.。
So over the next five years, we're hoping to do it every other year.。
So we're asking for $1 million today to seed the future development of those justice conferences.。
And then finally, and perhaps most significantly, we're raising money today for Shongshui.。
And what we're wanting to do is the same that we did for Yuen Long.。
When we sent Yuen Long out, we said, "We're going to renovate your space for you.。
And we're going to give you one year of operating expenses."。
As they say, they found a shopfront or a finding in the last stages of negotiating a shopfront.。
We would like to take that rent off their hands.。
We want to renovate that for them.。
And then we want to give them one year of operating expenditure so that they don't。
have to worry about making ends meet in their first year.。
But Sidney, Vivian and the team can focus on witnessing, sharing the gospel and building。
the people of their church, not just the infrastructure of it.。
Does that make sense?。
So we're asking for $5 million today across our services towards this work in Shongshui.。
That $5 million will cover all of the rent, renovation and their operational costs for。
one whole year.。
Then the Vine is going to continue.。
The Vine and OneTrail will continue to support them in the years ahead.。
But that's the initial funding that we need.。
Church, this excites me.。
Last year, we didn't ask for any money.。
We asked you to consecrate your heart, but I said I was going to come and ask.。
I do not apologize for it.。
I'm excited about it.。
$7.5 million.。
I believe we can raise that across our services today.。
It's not because it's in our strength, but because the wind of the Spirit is blowing.。
I don't think we have a move of God issue in the world right now.。
I do think, though, we need a fresh move of God's people.。
The critical issue with revival is not getting more of God.。
It is God getting more of us.。
We are a ship on uncharted waters, and we do not want to be pushed around by the waves。
and the currents of the ocean.。
We want to put up ourselves so that we can sail with purpose and intent.。
We are not passengers.。
We are sailors.。
It's time to set sail.。
Would you stand with me?。
I want to pray for us.。
Father, as we stand before you as the people of God who call the Vine our church, we stand。
in this moment really inspired by these four sails that you are calling us to put up to。
catch the wind that's blowing amongst us.。
Father, I want to pray for each person in this moment, Lord, that their hearts would。
burn within them.。
That they would say, I'm so grateful that I get to be a part of a community of faith。
where we're sailing with purpose and intent.。
And yes, I might still feel like I'm in uncharted waters right now in my personal life, in my。
private life, with my family or in my work, but I am not going to drift on what the world。
tells me.。
I'm not going to move in the direction that the waves and the current is trying to push。
me.。
No, I'm going to put the sails up so that I can catch the wind to move in whatever direction。
the Lord wants to send me.。
Father, whether it's priority of presence, radical discipleship, bearing witness, planting。
more churches, God, you are speaking to the Vine.。
Lord, may we be bold enough and courageous enough to hear it and respond.。
And Father, I'm so grateful that we get to do this together.。
We're not doing it in our own strength, but we get to stand shoulder to shoulder with。
one another in this moment.。
Saying that the gospel matters, Jesus matters, Hong Kong matters.。
And we're going to move wherever the Spirit sends us to move.。
I want to just invite you to take a moment now just to have your own personal prayer。
with the Lord.。
Just ask the Lord, which of these cells, maybe you're already aware of the one that's burning。
within you.。
Maybe one of them is already exciting you, or maybe one of them is already exciting you。
or maybe one of them is challenging you.。
You're like, man, I need more discipleship in my life.。
Or you might be like, I want to be a better witness in the marketplace or in the workplace。
for the Jesus.。
Whatever it might be, these might inspire you, they might challenge you.。
I want to give you just a few minutes just to bring your own personal spiritual response.。
And then I'm going to have Pastor Ellison come and lead us in our physical response。
in giving in just a few moments.。
But before that, take a moment and ask the Holy Spirit, spiritually, how do you want。
me to respond today?。
Come, Lord Jesus, come.。
Come, Lord Jesus, come.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
