Would you believe that change?。
Would you believe that change?。
Would you believe that change?。
Would you believe that change?。
There's a voice, sounds of wonders from above。
When you put out your springboard。
On the old and new。
In the power of your presence。
Holy Spirit reign, fall in like a flood。
Break upon my praise as I sing of your love。
Holy Spirit fly, burn within my soul。
As I call on your name。
As I call on your name。
Drifting visions of the sun。
As I stand in your presence。
Revelations of your love。
As I look to the heavens。
Holy Spirit reign, fall in like a flood。
Break upon my praise as I sing of your love。
Holy Spirit fly, burn within my soul。
As I call on your name。
As I call on your name。
As I call on your name。
As I call on your name。
As I call on your name。
Holy Spirit fly。
Oh, we call upon your name。
Oh, would you fill our hearts。
Would you fill this place, would you fill our hearts。
Your word brings life, your word brings healing。
Within your presence。
Holy Spirit burn like a fire。
Sing it out, church.。
All Christ's children。
In your presence。
All Christ's children。
Oh, we call upon you。
Oh, we call upon you。
Oh, Holy Spirit。
Oh, we call upon you。
Oh, we call upon you。
Oh, we call upon you。
Oh, in your presence。
Lord, I surrender。
To your glory。
For yours is the glory。
Living water。
River wild in me。
In mercy。
In your mercy。
Open heaven。
Crashing over me。
Restore me。
In your glory。
Oh, Holy Spirit。
Burn like a fire。
Oh, come to me。
Come to me。
In your presence。
Lord, I surrender。
To your glory。
To your glory。
Oh, in your mercy。
Oh, in your mercy。
Oh, in your mercy。
Oh, we call upon you。
We need you, God。
We need you, Lord。
Sing, Holy Spirit。
Oh, Holy Spirit。
Burn like a fire。
Oh, come to me。
Come to me。
In your presence。
Lord, I surrender。
To your glory。
To your glory。
Holy Spirit, come on。
Holy Spirit, come on。
Meet us where we are。
Thank you for who you are。
Holy Spirit, rain。
Fall in my cup of blood。
Break upon my praise。
As I sing of your love。
Holy Spirit, fire。
Burn within my soul。
As I call on you。
As I call on you。
Would you cry out to Him, too?。
As I call on you。
Jesus。
As I call on you。
In the name of Jesus。
As I call on you。
Jesus。
As I call on you。
Jesus。
As I call on you。
As I call on you。
I wonder if you just take a moment。
Just as we've been singing Jesus。
Speaking His name。
If you just open your hands where you are right now。
The very last thing that's in the Bible is a simple prayer。
It's "Come, Lord Jesus"。
I don't know what's happening in your life right now。
Or what things you're holding。
But there is a power。
In the name of Jesus。
So for you this morning。
As you think about what it is that you're carrying in this time。
Just that simple prayer, "Come, Lord Jesus"。
Come, Lord Jesus, to this area of my life right now that's broken。
Come, Lord Jesus, to this part of my relationship with my spouse。
That needs healing and renewal。
Come, Lord Jesus, for my business that I want to see go to the next level。
Come, Lord Jesus, in my heart, in my relationship with you。
Whatever is relevant for you, just take a moment to pray that prayer for you。
Just invite the Holy Spirit to come。
Thank you, Jesus。
So good。
It's a beautiful thing that Paul writes in the New Testament。
He says, "I'm not ashamed of the gospel"。
And as we are worshipping together today。
I felt like the Lord take those words and say them back over us。
And I think this is important for some of you here。
I felt like God was saying, "I'm not ashamed of you"。
I love you so much。
I created you, formed you, shaped you。
There's nothing that you have done。
There's nothing that you're currently doing。
And there's nothing that you will do that will cause me to be ashamed of you。
For I see you through the life, death and resurrection of my son Jesus。
And I love you, you're my beloved。
I'm here for you。
I see you。
I'm not ashamed of you。
Father, I pray you would liberate us from the fear of shame。
Lord, I pray you would liberate us from the things that we think about you that are not true。
I pray you would liberate us, Lord。
From the ways in which we hold ourselves back。
Because we think you think a certain way about us。
Forgive us, release us。
You are not ashamed of us。
And we are not ashamed of the gospel。
We are not ashamed to carry your name in our city。
We are not ashamed to speak your name over our workplaces。
We are not ashamed to speak our name over each other as a family。
Because we believe that there is healing, redemption, release and power in your name。
So we say, "Come Lord Jesus"。
There is no name that is higher than the name of Jesus。
So we say, "Come Lord Jesus"。
Over every situation and circumstance of family and friendship。
Over every marriage, over every home。
Come Lord Jesus。
And as we are here on Vision Sunday today。
We ask you humbly to come again for our church。
Father, we need you。
Father, we can't do this on our own strength。
Hong Kong is too valuable。
This time in history is too important。
For us to waste energy in our own strength。
Come Holy Spirit and fall on your church in this city。
Open our mouths, open our hands。
Open our resources。
May we give you glory。
In Jesus。
Everyone says, "Amen"。
Hey, can we just give Jesus honor。
Why don't you turn around and say hi to someone as you sit down。
And say, "Wow, so nice to see you"。
"Welcome to The Vine"。
"Who are you?"。
"I should get your phone number"。
"No!"。
Well, maybe, I don't know。
Well, welcome to The Vine, my name is Andrew, I'm one of the pastors here。
We're so glad that you are with us。
If you're new to The Vine, welcome。
You couldn't have come on a better Sunday。
In the name of Jesus, Amen。
You could not have come on a better Sunday。
Because today is Vision Sunday。
And I'm going to unpack some things for you today。
Whether you're a first timer with us。
Or whether this is a regular place of worship for you。
That I believe the Lord wants to speak to you。
And I want to frame it by taking you back a few years。
Starting in March 3rd of 2019。
Sunday, March 3rd, 2019。
Where on that day I stood before you on Vision Sunday。
And I unpacked for you what has come to be known as。
The River Model Vision for us here at The Vine。
About six months prior to that Sunday。
I was praying about the future of The Vine。
This is back in 2018。
And I felt like God said something very clearly。
He said, "The way you think about church has to change"。
"The way that you as a community together think about church needs to change"。
"You need to stop thinking about church as a building"。
"Or using the metaphor of church like a house"。
"And instead start thinking of a church like a river"。
"You need to start thinking of church more like a flowing river in a city"。
"Rather than a static house planted in the land"。
And it was interesting because what God was really saying is。
Church, of course, is not a building, it's a people。
And if church is a people, then church happens。
Wherever those people are living out the gospel in their sphere of influence。
And as I prayed and was receiving this。
I saw this vision of a river flowing in a nation。
I want to show you a picture of what I saw。
I literally saw that in my prayer time。
That's actually the Amazon River flowing in the basin of Brazil。
And God said, "This is what I have on my heart for the church"。
"I want the church to be like a river flowing in its city"。
"Bring the hope of the gospel to all the dry and weary parched lands"。
And if you think about the church as just one static location。
And you expect everybody to come to you。
You're not actually going to have impact in your city。
The church has to be outwards, flowing outwards。
Every single person in this room has a sphere of influence where the gospel matters。
A sphere of influence where Jesus matters。
And God was saying, "We need to shift"。
Now, I don't know if you can think how incredibly prophetic this call was on us as a church。
Literally at the start of 2019。
Just months away from when the plug fell out of the whole world。
And everything turned upside down。
For us here in Hong Kong, we had a year before everybody else suffered。
We had a year of the social movement which turned everything upside down in our city。
And then right off the back of that, COVID came。
And we had that for the last two and a half to three years。
And just before all of that happened, before a long season。
Where for many Sundays, we literally had to close our physical gatherings。
God showed up before that and said, "The church is not a physical gathering"。
That there is this thing that when we come together, life happens and we love it。
But if you close a physical gathering, you are not closing the physical and spiritual movement of the gospel in a city。
Are you with me?。
Like you can close the doors of a building, but you cannot close the door of the human heart。
And we began to think that if church is this way。
Then actually when all the stuff that happened during the process and during COVID came。
I think we were incredibly placed to be able to get in the flow differently。
And God is saying, "This is how you must continue to be"。
Because there are challenges ahead of us。
There are going to be some things ahead of us here in our city that we are not yet aware of。
Perhaps we are not even prepared for yet。
And yet if we continue to think about ourselves as a church that flows and moves forward。
We will begin to really believe that we can bless our city。
And we had this incredible vision of what it would be like if the vine that gathers in one chai。
Actually spread out and started connecting throughout our whole city。
That we might actually see this place truly changed with the power of the gospel。
Amen?。
Amen?。
Come on church, stay with me。
So today I want to talk to you about movement。
I want to talk to you about flow。
Because one of the greatest strategies I think the enemy has against his church。
Is to stop it flowing and moving forward。
Rivers, by their very definition, are things that always move forward。
In fact, if you take a river and you stop its forward momentum。
If you stop its forward flow, it no longer is a river anymore。
And it gets named by something else, it gets called a lake。
I want to be really clear, God has not given us a lake model vision here at the vine。
He's given us a river model vision。
And if it's a river model vision, what that means is we need to be moving forward。
We need to be progressing and flowing by His Holy Spirit in the land that we're planted in。
Now rivers flow simply by rain falling in higher elevations。
And the water then either seeping into the ground and joining and forming there。
Or in the runoff on the top of the surface of the ground。
Flowing from a higher elevation to a lower elevation and eventually out into the sea。
That's how rivers actually flow。
Now here's the incredible thing。
Rivers very rarely flow in a straight line。
And oh my goodness, the last four years has not been a straight line。
But here's the great thing about thinking about a church like a river and not a building。
Because when obstacles come in your path。
When the land around you changes。
Rivers are able to adapt to the contour of the land in which they're planted in。
Have you ever noticed that a river can sometimes flow around the stones and the rocks around it?。
Rivers have this amazing ability to weave and flow and fit to the contour of their land。
And if there's anything we've had to do over the last four years。
Surely it's had to be flexible to move。
When our land puts an obstacle in its way。
We as a church need to make sure we can continue to flow around it。
That no obstacles create boundaries that turn the church into a lake。
Because lakes become stagnant。
But the church is meant to be alive。
There are two things that impact the flow of a river。
These two things impact the speed and the power within which a river flows。
These are friction and gravity。
Friction impacts the speed of a river。
Gravity impacts the power that that river has。
Let me unpack both of these real quick for you。
See, friction takes place in a river when there are stones or rocks placed within it。
Or when sediment builds up inside of it。
That weighs it down and stops it from flowing really fast。
And I think if we're honest with ourselves。
We've had some pretty large stones placed in the rivers here in Hong Kong。
In the church in the last three or four years。
And those things do have the power to create friction in us。
I think if we're honest with ourselves。
There has been a lot of friction amongst us。
A lot of friction in our families over the last three to four years。
Particularly during the social movement。
There was a lot of friction politically in our city。
Which created breakdowns in relationships。
Some really valuable and important relationships were placed in great friction because of that。
And I think if we're honest with ourselves。
It was also here at the church too。
There were times over the last three to four years。
Where friction, not just with the social movement。
But with COVID as well。
With government policies and procedures。
Some that we agreed with perhaps。
Some that we didn't agree with。
Navigating the tensions and the frustrations in the midst of all of that。
Has indeed created frictions even within our own relationships here at the church。
And any time there's friction, the church will slow down。
Sediment is also important。
See, sediment in a river is the buildup of soil or dirt。
Or small little pebbles that are found in the river。
And if sediment builds up enough。
It becomes like a sludge within the river itself。
And the weight of that slows again the flow of the river。
And I think for us, there's been sediment at work around us as well。
That's the emotional things that we've been carrying in the last three to four years。
The fact that some of that emotional stuff is still wearing down on us。
The fact that we've had some challenges in the area of our mental health in the last three to four years。
We've carried on stress。
And some of us have even felt traumatized through what has happened over this time period。
And that's like the sediment that's found in a river。
And unless a river is able to drain that sediment away。
It will slow down the flow of it naturally。
And I think in the same way, God is challenging us as a church。
If we really want to flow in 2023。
Not only do we need to deal with the frictions that are there in our relationships。
We also must deal with the releasing of the sediment that is built up inside of our spirits。
Inside of our emotions, even inside of our minds。
And try to find ways of getting rid of that。
So that we can flow in the way that God calls us to。
This is why from next Sunday onwards for four weeks。
I'm going to do a series here with you called "When the Journey is Too Much"。
And we're going to talk about mental health and mental wellness。
We're going to take a look at the Apostle Paul and the Prophet Elijah。
And we're going to look at the ways in which sediment built up for them。
And how they were able to release the sediment in their lives。
So they could continue to flow in the ministry God had called them to。
And my prayer for you over those weeks is that you would be able to release。
Some of the sediment that may have built up for you。
That's friction, okay?。
But here's the other bit。
Friction slows down the speed of a river。
It's gravity that impacts the power of a river。
Gravity is this amazing thing。
It's an unseen force。
But it's powerful to literally pull that water from a higher elevation。
Down to a lower elevation。
And eventually out into the sea。
It is gravity that works upon the water。
To move it from one place to another。
To literally pull it down towards its exit point in the ocean。
And if that's the reality of gravity and what it does to the flow of a river。
And if God is speaking to us still that the vine is not to be a building but a river。
Then here's the key question we need to keep asking ourselves。
What is the gravity that God is using upon us。
To ensure that we continue to flow and move more and more。
Towards the vast ocean of his kingdom in Hong Kong。
Are you with me still?。
What is the gravity for us that's going to move this thing forward。
That's going to pull the vine into the right direction as we move forward。
Today in this talk I want to give you an answer to that question。
And as I do so。
Let me start by telling you about some of the forward momentum。
That I feel God has got for us this year。
One of the key ways that we're moving forward and flowing in the river this year。
Is of course through our church plant in Yuen Long。
And Yuen Long are watching this right now。
They're gathering in their temporary space in a kindergarten in Yuen Long。
Pastor Tim and Pastor Ivan are there right now。
And I'm going to look into this camera。
You're all going to turn and look into the camera。
And you're going to wave and say, "Hey, Yuen Long, you guys are awesome。
We miss you, we love you, we're so glad you're a part of this."。
Yes。
So we've already launched our church there。
Meeting in this temporary space。
As we get ourselves ready to formally launch the church。
Towards the summer of this year。
And last year at Vision Sunday。
We invited each one of you to give towards the operating expenses of the church for one year。
And you guys gave over $7 million last year。
So that we could get that church up and running。
Cover their operational expenditure for one year。
Which takes the whole pressure off Tim and Ivan。
They can pass to that church without having to worry about that income coming in for that first year。
And that was an incredible blessing for them。
But this year, we're in a situation now。
Where we've got this project manager who's helping us find a location there。
We've got an attended environment where they've come up with designs。
For what our church premises will look like。
And this year on Vision Sunday, today。
I'm inviting you to raise $6.5 million。
And that $6.5 million is what we need to be able to renovate a venue in Yuen Long。
So that we can hopefully formally launch our services in the summer of this year。
So that's the ask today。
I'm putting that right up front and I hope that's okay。
You should never feel ashamed to ask people to give to something you're passionate about。
So we're looking for $6.5 million for the fit out of a premises in Yuen Long。
But Yuen Long's not the only way we're flowing this year。
There are some other things that we're also doing。
And we're excited about these as well。
I mentioned about the sediment earlier。
Well this is something that we're leaning into as a church。
Because God has always called the Vine to be a place of healing and restoration。
And so we're helping to process some of that sediment in us this year。
By making some investments in some areas where we can do that。
So you know that we have a counselling centre here at the Vine called Oasis。
It's our centre of counselling and psychotherapy。
We're going to be further investing into that this year。
Helping to grow the team there。
And begin to really serve the mental health need that there is in Hong Kong in this time。
And one of the things that I'm really happy to let you know。
Is that now Oasis is actually ministering to around 80% people who are not part of the Vine。
And this is something we've always wanted with this ministry。
We've not wanted it just to help serve us, although that's important。
But we wanted to serve the city。
And now 80% of their clients actually do not attend the Vine。
And they're just out there in the city somewhere。
And that is awesome。
We're also going to be shifting into some new ministries here at the Vine this year。
And one of those areas is in the area of inner healing。
We're having one of our pastors move into a new role。
Where they're going to be like a restoration pastor for us。
And helping us to just lean into courses and ministry。
And various prayer ministry。
To really help people to let go of some of that built up sediment。
That's happened in their lives over the last three to four years。
We want to put resources into that space so we can flow well。
And one of the other important things is you come out of something like COVID。
As we're emerging, no masks today or maybe masks。
It depends on how you're feeling。
And that's freedom to be however you want to be。
But what's amazing is we're emerging out of COVID。
Is that we also need to find community again with one another。
And so our community groups, our ways in which we want to connect。
To the various communities at this church。
Is going to increase this year。
And you would have noticed already, you've been coming to the Vine for a little while。
That we started some new initiatives to try to connect people on Sundays。
And help them to be a part of this church and not be anonymous。
That's going to continue throughout the year。
We're also investing in our generations ministries。
Our kids, youth and young adults。
Because we believe family is so important。
Particularly again in this time of emerging out of the crisis that we've been in。
Family, strengthening family, working with families, incredibly important。
Our missions work。
We're now moving out into our neighbourhoods much more than we've done before。
As well as the pathways that we do here throughout the year。
We're also creating initiatives for you to get involved。
In really understanding the neighbourhood better。
We call these neighbourhood conversations。
We've been talking about these over the last number of weeks。
We've had some incredible connection points。
With people here in Wan Chai。
Learning about how they're doing。
Understanding the small businesses in our environment。
So that we can be a blessing to those that actually are living around。
Where this part of the river is currently flowing。
Does that sound good?。
So those are some of the things that we're doing。
But I actually don't want to take a lot of time today。
Telling you about all the things that we're going to do。
And there's a very important reason for that。
Because normally here on Vision Sunday。
What I do is I kind of use the whole message。
To unpack all the great and exciting stuff we do。
And then invite you to give towards that。
But about two months ago。
As I was praying for today。
I felt God give me a very strong word。
It was actually a word for me personally。
And it was a word of rebuke。
Now when God speaks a word of rebuke to you。
Two things happen。
One is "Ugh, no!"。
The other is "You're set free"。
And so when God spoke this word to me。
It was difficult。
But now I believe I'm standing before you。
Two months later set free。
And I want to unpack a little bit about what God said to me。
Because I think it's also something。
He might be saying to more of us in this room as well。
I was on this walk。
You guys know that I receive prayer when I walk。
So I was on this walk in Hong Kong in the hills。
Beautiful hike。
And as God began to speak to me。
He said "Andrew, in this season of the vine I'm doing a new thing"。
And that's something we've lent into。
In the last couple of months。
As we opened up this new year。
We looked at Isaiah 40 to 55。
And the whole new thing that God does there。
And God was saying "I'm doing a new thing, Andrew。
So I want you to do a new thing on Vision Sunday"。
And He said "I need you to understand, Andrew。
That there's something going on in your life。
That is actually stopping the flow of the river at the vine。
That I want to do"。
Now when you're the senior pastor of the church。
And God shows up and says "You're the problem"。
That's a sobering thing to hear, right?。
But I felt like God was saying。
"Andrew, there's something in you that's stopping the flow。
And I need you to do something different on Vision Sunday"。
I realised that I had come。
Over the many years that we've done Vision Sunday here。
That I had come to understand or think。
That the gravity that moves the vine forward。
Is a really well and articulated vision。
I had come to convince myself。
That the thing that's moving us forward。
The gravity, if you will, that moves us from one location to the next。
Moves us forward。
Is a really well articulated vision to you。
Now I want you to be clear about something。
Vision, of course, is not wrong。
Vision is great, vision is needed。
The Bible even says "Without a vision people perish"。
And I don't want you to perish。
So we're going to keep talking about vision at the vine。
Vision is a part of who we are。
This day is still called Vision Sunday。
But I also need you to hear this。
And this is what I needed to hear by the Holy Spirit。
I had come to think。
That the way this thing moves forward。
This idea of church。
It moves forward through my ability。
To discern what God is saying to us。
And then my ability to stand in front of you on a particular Sunday。
And communicate what God is doing。
And do it, hopefully, in such a clear and articulate way。
That you rationally hear it。
And go "Oh, that sounds like a worthy financial investment"。
I want to be honest with you。
I think there are some Vision Sundays in the past。
Maybe not all, but some。
Where I approach it a bit like an investment strategy。
We're in Hong Kong, after all。
And I thought, well, if I could just get up there on a Sunday。
And give you a rational reason。
Why you should give, not only that。
But as you give, show you that you're going to have a positive rate of return on your investment。
Then you're more likely to give。
And so I began to think that the gravity was down to me。
That the gravity was down to how I speak the vision。
And the gravity was like some sort of investment strategy。
That hopefully convinces you to rationally give to this church。
Now I want to say this, because this is really important。
So much of the giving in Scripture is actually irrational。
Come on, church。
So much of the giving that we actually see in Scripture is actually irrational。
In fact, there is an element of irrationality in the giving experienced in God's kingdom。
Now by irrationality, I'm not saying it's giving done without any thoughts。
I'm not saying it's giving done without any kind of reflection, no。
In fact, the irrational giving in Scripture comes with a lot of reflection。
A lot of thinking。
In fact, that's why people respond in that way。
What I mean by irrational giving is not that it's not done with thought or care or reflection。
It's done by a different barometer for success。
And a different reason to give it than how the world might encourage us to give like in an investment。
In other words, it actually becomes much more something that is faithful and true to the kingdom。
Even if it looks irrational to the world。
Is anybody still here?。
Are you okay, upper house?。
You alive?。
Give me a wave。
Ah。
The fact that you're sitting in the upper house right now。
And the fact that you're sitting here in the lower house right now。
Is because there are a group of crazy Christians 12 years ago who were irrational。
Come on, church。
You see, this used to be a dilapidated porn theater。
It was。
It was a dilapidated porn theater。
And it had been like that for 10 years。
And nobody was mad enough to make an investment in this building。
And in fact, many people had come to think about investing here。
But because you can't actually build on top of it, it was a poor investment for people。
So we showed up to our landlord and we said, "Well, we don't want to build upwards。
We want to actually just use this facility for this thing that we've got。
It's the idea of the kingdom of God。
Can we tell you about this?"。
And it was kind of crazy。
And then we started to go to the church and everybody thought we were mad。
They were like, "You don't own the building。
You're going to put how much money and build a building that you don't actually own。
You're putting all this money into somebody else's pocket。
That's not a rational, financial, sound act to do。
Like, why would you do that?"。
And so many people thought we were mad。
And we're now sitting in the reality of the irrationality of some giving of a previous generation。
Because they didn't give based on some sound financial plan。
They gave based on something else。
Are you with me still?。
And the question is, what is it that they gave from?。
What was the gravity that enabled them to open up their hands。
So that you would be the beneficiaries of it today?。
And I wonder whether you might be willing to open your hands。
So there might be some beneficiaries of it tomorrow。
What is it that was the gravity that really moves a church forward?。
Well, to help you understand that, I want to actually go to a moment in Scripture。
That is completely irrational in its giving。
It's perhaps one of the most famous moments in Scripture where there's giving encountered for。
And it's found in the book of Exodus。
And before I go into the Scripture, I'm so excited。
You know, I've been working for about four years on our Exodus sermon series。
We've traveled to Egypt, we've gone to Jordan, we've filmed all the stuff that we want to film。
So that series is starting the Sunday after Easter。
So that's April 16th, right here。
We're going to begin our Exodus sermon series。
If there was ever a series to invite your friends and family to, it's this one。
Every Sunday we have little films that we'll be showing each week。
I'm really excited about it。
That's enough of a plug in Jesus' name, everyone says, Amen。
But I want to go to the book of Exodus together today to this moment in chapter 36。
And the reason why we're going there is because there is this moment of irrationality that happens。
That is so beautiful and so kingdom。
Now, before we read it, let me give you some of the background。
So, Egypt has come out of their slavery。
God has delivered them into freedom。
And they're now in this desert, wandering around before they go into the promised land。
And as they're wandering around the desert, they want to construct a place。
Where God's presence could be with them。
They're still nomadic at this time, which meant they were moving around all the time。
So rather than build a temple, which would come much later in the promised land。
Now they build a tent。
It's known as the tent of tabernacle, the tent of meeting。
And Moses comes before the people and he says, we're going to make this tent。
And it's going to be amazing。
And I want you to participate in your giving。
So that we can construct this tent。
So this is a building project in scripture。
I want you to see what happens here from verse 2。
"Then Moses summoned Bezalel and Ohaleb and every skilled person to whom the Lord had given ability。
And who was willing to come and do the work。
They received from Moses all the offerings the Israelites had brought to carry out the work of constructing the sanctuary。
And the people continued to bring free will offerings morning after morning。
So all the skilled craftsmen who were doing all the work on the sanctuary。
Left their work behind them and said to Moses, the people are bringing more than enough。
Notice this, more than enough for doing the work the Lord commanded to be done。
Then Moses gave an order and his word was sent throughout the camp。
No man or woman is to make anything else as an offering for the sanctuary。
And so the people were restrained from bringing more。
Because they had already had more than enough to do all the work。
This blows my mind。
I mean, just track with what's happening here in this moment。
Moses has gone out and invited people to give to a building project。
He said we want to put this tabernacle together, this tent together。
And we would love for you to be a part of that。
And so many people have responded。
So many people were giving that the workmen who were constructing the tabernacle。
Had to put their tools down because they were so overwhelmed dealing with the offerings that were coming in。
And they put their tools down and they go to Moses and they say, Moses, you need to make an announcement。
You need to stop people from giving because we have already more than enough that we need。
And so Moses, perhaps the first and perhaps maybe only ever Christian leader。
Has gone in front of his people and he said, stop giving。
Imagine that。
Imagine if I came to you next week after Vision Sunday and said, stop giving。
You've given too much church。
I don't know what to do with it。
I'm going to do my normal pastoral job because I'm counting all the money。
That's what's happening here。
The word used here, restrained from bringing more。
Is a word in the Hebrew that means to physically stop someone。
It was literally like the people were putting hands on people, stopping them from coming forward。
Because they were so excited to give。
And when we see this, we have to ask ourselves the question, what is going on here?。
I mean, this is irrational。
What is the gravity that's causing these people to want to give in such a way?。
Well, to understand that, we jump back to chapter 35 where Moses explains the start of the project。
35 verse 4 says this。
Moses said to the whole Israelite community, this is what the Lord has commanded。
From what you have, notice this, from what you have, take a portion, an offering for the Lord。
Everyone who is willing is to bring to the Lord an offering of gold, silver and bronze。
Blue, purple and scarlet yarn and fine linen, goat hair, ram skins dyed red。
Heights of sea cows, no idea what a sea cow is, but anyway。
Acacia wood, olive oil for the light, spices for the anointing oil and for the fragrant incense。
And onyx stones and other gems to be mounted on the ephod and breast pieces。
In other words, he goes to them and he doesn't shy away from telling them what to give。
In the same way that I'm happy to stand before you today and say we need 6.5 million dollars。
And I love what Moses does here, he tells them what to give but he makes this big long list。
And some things on this list only very wealthy people would be able to bring。
But there are other things on this list that all the common people would also have been able to bring。
In other words, what Moses is doing is he's creating an environment where everybody can contribute。
Where it's not, hey we're only looking for this。
He's saying no matter your situation in life, no matter where you're coming from。
No matter how much your household might have right now。
Everybody has the opportunity to be a part of this building project。
And he creates the space for that。
And that's something we always do here at The Vine too, like everybody has the opportunity。
What's important to us is the communal act of giving rather than exactly what is given。
The fact that we do it all together and we all have the opportunity to do it together is the beautiful thing。
Now I want you to see one thing that Moses says here at the start。
He says everyone who is willing。
Now this is so important, in fact there's five times in chapter 35 alone。
Where Moses mentions those who were willing。
Those who were willing brought this, those that were willing brought that。
Why is he emphasizing this?。
Because he's speaking to his people about freedom。
People were not obligated, they were not coerced, they were not forced to give。
They were totally free to give if they wanted to give。
It was the willing who responded and stepped up to give。
And there were so many who were doing that that they actually had to stop them from giving in the end。
But Moses is making an important point here, he's saying the willing get to be a part of this。
Now this is so important that you track with this。
Why do you think it's important that Moses is emphasizing freedom in this building project and in the act of giving?。
Well remember the Israelites had been slaves for 430 years。
And when you're a slave there are two things that are the reality。
Number one, you don't own anything。
Number two, you have no freedom。
And Moses understood if he came to his people and he said you're obligated to give。
If you're going to be a part of this community, well then you have to give。
And if you don't give, you're out of this community。
Then he's just enslaving his people once again。
So he basically says you are free to do this however you want。
In fact I want to read to you verse 29 of the end of chapter 20, 35。
It says all the Israelite men and women who were willing brought to the Lord free will offerings。
For all the work the Lord had through Moses commanded to be done。
They are willing and they are free to do whatever they want。
And Moses is emphasizing the freedom because he does not want to enslave his people。
But I also want you to recognize something。
Israel had been slaves。
And God in his love and compassion saw them in their slavery。
Said that's not right for my people。
And through miracle after miracle came down, set his people free, delivered them。
And he's in the process of taking them towards the promised land。
So these are a group of people who just 20 years beforehand。
God had shown up and done a miraculous thing for them。
God showed up and said your freedom matters to me。
God showed up and said in love I'm going to change your situation。
God showed up and said your slavery and your oppression is not right。
And so God changed it out of his place of love。
And there is this connection between love and freedom。
And so then Moses comes and he says we have this building project。
But I'm not going to coerce you, I'm not going to obligate you。
I'm not going to slave you into something here。
I'm just literally going to say you are free to respond however you want to respond。
And they responded so much that Moses had to tell them to stop giving。
Why did they respond so much?。
Because they were people who knew that it was the love of God that had set them free。
And when an opportunity came for them to show their gratitude。
To a God who has set them free, they jumped on it。
And remember, these are not wealthy people。
Because they've been slaves for 430 years。
And yes, when they came out of Egypt, they brought some of the gold and some things with them。
But these are a poor group of people。
The sound financial decision making for a family in Israel at this time would have been not to give。
Well we just need to save up for our family。
Man, we've had long hard years of slavery。
We haven't earned anything for years。
And now we're finally beginning to get some wealth for our family。
Little Bobby needs to go to university in a few years time。
And we're just going to put some money aside and we're going to do all this。
Now, don't get me wrong, stewardship of our resources is very important。
But it blows my mind that these people have every excuse not to give, but they give。
And they give so much that Moses has to tell them to stop。
Why? Because they are a people who have encountered the love of God and it has changed them。
They give not because of some great vision。
They give not because it's some sound financial decision。
The reason why they give, the only reason they give, is from love。
God has changed me。
I am now free to honour him in any way I can for the change that he has made in me。
See, love and love alone is the gravity that moves God's river forward in the kingdom of his city。
Love。
And I had for a number of years thought it was vision。
Thought it was a way of telling you a good investment to make。
And this is why today I'm not unpacking all the things that we've got planned to do this year。
Although we've got a lot of things planned。
I'm literally just coming to you and saying。
I wonder if you, like me, have struggled somewhat。
And we need to get back to the heart of the matter。
And the heart of the matter is。
I want you to give out love today。
You're free, completely。
Whether you want to respond or not。
And in a bit of a moment's time we're going to do that together。
You're free to do whatever you want。
But I do not want you to give into something。
I want you to give out of something。
I'm going to say that again, so important church。
I do not want you to give into something today。
I do not want you to give into vision。
I want you to give out of love。
The Israelites did not give into vision。
They gave out of love。
And I believe that's the way that God always moves His church forward。
It is a group of people saying, "God has changed me。
How can I not do something now to express my gratitude。
And my own love in freedom for somebody else?"。
And you need to know in this room that God loves you。
Just like He loved the Israelites。
In fact, it says in that most famous of our verses。
That God so loved the world that He gave。
And that maybe our response in that is to say。
We so love our city。
We so love the brokenness here and wanting to see it change。
We so love the darkness and wanting to see it overcome with light。
We so love the reality of what God's doing amongst us。
That we're like God, willing to give of the most precious things。
So that His love would actually find root in our city。
That we would give out of something。
Rather than giving in to something。
When you give in to something, you're often wondering, "What's your return?"。
Oh, I'm going to say this, not my notes, but it's good。
When you give in to something, you're always thinking, "What's my return?"。
When you give out of something, you let it go。
Wouldn't it be amazing if we gave just to let it go?。
Just to trust that God knows what He's doing。
I want to finish by just highlighting one thing here。
Which I think is really important。
It says, "Those who were willing gave"。
I want you to know that God changes the world。
Not through those who are obligated or coerced。
God changes the world through those who are willing。
That's the way God works, by those who are willing。
I love that Moses emphasises this reality of the willing。
Because it says something important to us。
It says that there were people in Israel who were not willing。
He doesn't say, "All of Israel gave"。
And it wasn't like this big celebration that everybody in Israel gave。
No, he said, "Those that were willing gave"。
Which implies that there were some within Israel that weren't willing。
And here's the really thing that blows my mind。
Those who were not willing would still go on to receive the benefits。
Of the future that was created by those who were willing。
In other words, God does not go, "There's second class citizens here"。
It wasn't like Moses later on said, "Hey, if you gave, you get the first entrance to the tabernacle。
And if you didn't give, then you can only come back on Thursday at 2 o'clock"。
It wasn't like Moses sorted out between those who were willing and those who weren't。
Whether they were willing or they weren't。
They were always going to be swept up in what God does。
That's the way God always works。
Whether you give today or not, you're going to be swept up。
In all of the things that we do here at the Vine and all the ministry of the God。
We're never going to judge。
I'm not going to know who's given and who's not given。
It doesn't work that way。
It's kind of irrational。
Come on, church。
It's kind of irrational。
That those who give, and many of you in this room have given over the years。
Incredibly sacrificially。
And those that don't give experience the same thing。
It would be those who were willing。
Who would shape the future in Israel for those who were not。
And those that were not would still benefit from it。
And it will be the same for us。
I said earlier that you're sitting in a room right now。
That those who were willing before gave towards。
And I wonder in the future。
What rooms some generations in 10, 15, 20 years will be sitting in。
Because of the willing in this room right now。
Whether you give or not today。
You're free to respond no matter how God leads you。
But it will be the willing amongst us。
Who get the joy of participating in building the future of tomorrow。
My prayer for you is that you, like me, would go through a regeneration of your spirit。
That you would realize that sometimes we've made this whole giving thing more complicated than it really is。
That while vision is important and stewardship of our finances are important。
They are never the gravity that decides whether we give or not。
The reason we give is because God loved us。
And because he so loved us, he sent his son Jesus。
And in the freedom that we now have in Jesus。
We are free to be a part of the willing。
Who shape the future of Hong Kong for the generations that come。
That's the joy, that's the invitation。
And that's how I want you to respond today。
I wonder whether you would stand with me。
And we're going to do a couple of things together。
As we stand together, you'll notice that there are buckets around this room。
There's a couple of baskets here, just in the corners here。
There's a couple of baskets in the corners over here as well。
In the upper house, there's some baskets at the front and some baskets at the back。
As you came in today, you would have received an envelope。
And in that envelope is an opportunity for you today, if you want to, to give through your envelope。
You can write a check, put some cash in there。
You can fill in your credit card details and the amount that you want to give。
However you want to do that, you can use your envelope for that。
And then over the next five minutes, as we're worshipping。
You're going to be free to respond however you want。
And those that would like to give in this room。
You'll have an opportunity to do that as we worship together。
And you can drop off those envelopes in the baskets。
Also, if you would like to give by credit card directly today。
We have a team from our finance department who are outside right here on the second floor。
And they are really nice people。
And I'm praying they're going to be very busy and tired by the end of the day。
But you have an opportunity, if you want to give by credit card。
To go and meet with them and they will process your credit card payment。
That can happen also over the next five or so minutes as we're worshipping。
Also on the screen behind me, for those that want to give digitally。
Because that's a big thing right now, many of us are giving that way。
We'll put the QR codes on the screens as we worship。
So that you can give that way。
This five minutes or so that we're now going to worship。
Is a time for you to truly be free。
If you want to partake in the offering today。
I encourage you to do it in the next five minutes。
If you don't, that's perfectly fine as well。
None of us are going to be looking around, there's no judgement, no nothing like that。
You are free to be willing to give。
And as we do that, we get to do that in a spirit of worship together。
And then at the end of that, I'm going to come back。
And we're going to close our time together。
With the most important thing we're going to do today。
Which is communion。
As we come around the ultimate symbol of love。
As right now we give from that place of love。
So five minutes or so, enjoy your time of giving and worship。
And then after that, I'll come and close our service with communion。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
