And Father, we want to walk open-handedly before you.。
Lord, we recognize everything we have comes from you.。
And so we worship you by letting go of the things that you've blessed us with to bless others。
in that other-centered love that we were speaking about last week.。
Lord, may our tithes and our offerings not just bless this community,。
but overflow to the other communities and missions organizations and NGOs that we support as a church body.。
We thank you for this, in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says, "Amen." Amen.。
All right, well, as you give, why don't you turn around, say hi to somebody,。
welcome them to the Vine, get to know them, say, "Hey, who are you?。
You seem like a nice person. Be friendly."。
Awesome.。
Well, very much welcome to the Vine.。
My name is Andrew. I'm one of the pastors here.。
And I'm so glad that you're here at the 11 o'clock service with us.。
If you're joining us again online from wherever you are around the world,。
we're grateful that you're also with us, and we're so glad that you're a part of this community too.。
We recognize that over our Christmas period, there have been a lot of new people at the Vine.。
Maybe you're guests that have been welcomed by family members to be with us today.。
Maybe you're visiting Hong Kong. You're here for the holidays.。
Or maybe you've just moved to our city, and you're looking for a new community of faith,。
and you've shown up today, and you're a part of this for the first time.。
So whether you're a guest with us, whether you're here for the very first time, and you're new to the city,。
maybe you could just put your hand up and wave it at me, and that's just a way for us to welcome you.。
Welcome, guys. Great to have you with us. Welcome here as well.。
Anyone on this side of the room in the upper house as well?。
Yes, welcome to you. Anybody online? Yes, I can see you in Alaska waving at us.。
That's a lie, but anyway.。
We're so glad if you are new, and we're grateful that you're with us.。
Right after the service, we have a Connect Hub.。
That's a bunch of our most friendliest people that we can find who are going to be in the lobby right outside straight after the service,。
and they would love to get to know you.。
The Vine is a relatively large church over the three services that we have here.。
We don't want you to feel anonymous or get lost, and so right after the service, you can connect with Carly and her team.。
They'll be wearing lanyards, and so you'll be able to spot them just as you come into the second floor of you in the upper house.。
You can come down the stairs straight after the service, and we would love to meet you there.。
For the rest of us, this is your normal church community.。
We're so glad that you're back and with us.。
Maybe you were traveling over Christmas, and you're back for the new year.。
We're glad that you are home.。
We're excited about what's happening over the next number of weeks here.。
We're going to be starting a brand-new sermon series starting next Sunday, the first Sunday of 2025, called "How We Begin."。
We're sensing strongly as a leadership here at The Vine that 2025 is going to be a new season of action for us,。
where we take the gospel of Jesus Christ into our city more than perhaps we've ever done before in our church history.。
We have been telling you that 2024 was all about a year of intimacy.。
It was about Christ calling us into intimacy with Him, but we said at the beginning of this year that God doesn't just call us into intimacy for our own benefit,。
but it's always to transform us, to send us out into the community that He's placed around us.。
2025 is going to be a year of action for us, and we want to call you at the start of the year, just four Sundays in the lead-up to Chinese New Year,。
how we begin this process of moving outwards.。
We're going to look at the life of Samuel and David in the Old Testament,。
because they went through significant transition seasons of intimacy into action.。
We're going to have a look at how they transitioned and how they made that jump into the new season.。
What did they do to prepare themselves?。
We're going to take that teaching and apply it to us as we begin 2025.。
That's going to be the next four weeks. Really excited about that for you.。
Then starting on January 6 all the way to the 26th of January, we're doing our annual 21-day fast here at The Vine,。
where we call you as part of our community to join us in fasting in the first 21 days of giving up something to spend more time with Jesus.。
Fasting can take many different forms, and over those 21 days, a lot of people here at The Vine will fast food,。
and they'll fast perhaps one meal a day.。
Rather than the normal three meals, they'll fast one meal, and in the time that's created in that,。
spend that time in prayer and intimacy with Jesus.。
Maybe they'll fast particular types of food throughout the month.。
A lot of our people fast social media during those 21 days,。
because that gives them a lot of time back in their lives to then spend with Jesus.。
The whole point of doing a fast is to give up something that's sacrificial to you.。
If you fast something that you don't enjoy doing, that's not a fast.。
That's just weirdness.。
So, you have to give up something that you love to do, something that you want to do,。
and in that place, you connect with Jesus in the time that is created.。
A fast is not a diet.。
We're not calling you to 21 days of dieting.。
We're calling you to 21 days of connecting with Jesus in the New Year.。
Does that sound good?。
We'll tell you a little bit more about it next week,。
but for now, we want to encourage you just to begin to pray and begin to ask the Lord what is it that He's asking you to potentially fast for 21 days。
to get more time back in your life to connect with Him.。
One of the important things that we do during those 21 days is every single day,。
we send out a devotional that has been written by a member of our church community.。
So, one of you has written one of those devotions, and we send it out every single day of those 21 days.。
We send it to your email inbox.。
This is not a plug to sign up to our mailing list, but that's how the devotional comes.。
It comes from our mailing list.。
So, if you're not on our mailing list, you won't get those devotionals over those 21 days.。
So, to sign up for our mailing list, you can scan the QR code on the screen right now or the QR code that's in front of your seat.。
And on there, you will be able to see a link that says sign up to our mailing list.。
So, give us your email, and that way, over those 21 days, from the 6th to the 26th,。
you'll get a daily devotional written by a congregation member。
that's all designed to bless you in this journey of beginning the new season that the Lord is calling us into.。
Does that sound good?。
Oh my goodness.。
No, that sounds terrible, Andrew.。
Does that sound good?。
All right, awesome.。
Well, I'm excited.。
We've got Carla Roscoe sharing the word with us today.。
Can we give Carla a round of applause as she comes?。
Yes.。
Carla and I, color coordinated in beige.。
Beige, brown, I don't know what it is.。
It's cool.。
I don't know what color it is.。
Anyway, I'm going to pray for you.。
Can we stretch out our hands and let's pray for Carla.。
Father, we are so grateful for this woman of God who, Lord, over something 20 plus years has served this community with her and her family.。
Lord, we're deeply grateful for just the gifts and the skills and the heart that sits on her,。
the anointing that you have given her, Lord, the prophetic edge that you've placed upon her.。
And Lord, as we come to your word today, we recognize that there's so much that we are still longing to change and renew of ourselves as we move from 2024 to 2025.。
And I pray that Carla's word today would be a significant shifting moment for many of us.。
And we thank you for this in Jesus name.。
Everyone says, Amen.。
Early in December, Andrew asked me, "Are you free to preach on the 29th of December?"。
And I was like, "Sure."。
And then he said, "And you can preach on whatever you want."。
And I was like, "Yes! I can preach about this. I can preach about that."。
And then I thought, "Well, maybe I should actually pray and ask God, 'Is there anything specific you would like me to bring on the last Sunday of 2024?'"。
And so as I began praying for our time together and for what to share, I sensed that God impressed upon me three words.。
Three words that I believe are important to us as a church and also for us individually.。
So if you're visiting here and this is, you know, you're passing through Hong Kong or for whatever reason you find yourself right now in the Vine at this service, or if you're watching online, then this message is also for you.。
We don't believe in coincidences.。
And again, as I sensed around how to bring this message, I felt that it was important that it was something that we leaned into that would encourage us.。
And that words, these three words God was asking of all of us.。
So those three words are, "Don't hold back."。
As I was chatting with a friend a while ago, they were struggling with something and I asked them, "Well, have you asked God about this?"。
Their response was, "No."。
Which kind of surprised me.。
But as we were talking more, it was clear that there was already an assumption about how God would respond, so they didn't ask.。
Does anybody relate?。
Recently I was talking to a colleague and she mentioned casually how sometimes it's actually hard to talk to God about areas of your life because you're not quite sure what he's going to say.。
And again, I was surprised, but then I thought, "Actually, there's probably areas in my life too that I may not always bring to God and how easy it is to hold back."。
So when these three words came through strongly about to share with you today, I felt that this was something that God was saying very specifically to us today about how we are to enter 2025.。
And that we are to enter 2025 without holding back.。
"Don't hold back," is what God would say to us this morning.。
So, we'll be looking at two examples in scriptures of not holding back.。
And through incredible acts of courage and conviction, we see that God moves in surprising ways that dramatically change trajectory of lives and serve as important examples to us today.。
And my prayer really is as we open scripture and as we allow the Holy Spirit to speak to us, is that we would learn we cannot assume to know what God thinks on all things because that often causes us to hold back.。
When we choose to hold back, we miss out.。
If we choose not to hold back, we will experience a depth in our relationship with God as well as freedom.。
And that is what God desires for us as we enter 2025.。
So, our first story is found in the Old Testament, is in the book of Numbers.。
It's one of my favorite stories.。
It's the story of five sisters who with great courage and humility choose not to hold back even when holding back would appear to be the right thing to do.。
So, we pick up the story from chapter 27.。
And the context is Moses is distributing land to the families of the Israelites for when they enter the promised land.。
Land which according to the law would pass from father to son for generations to come.。
The daughters of Zelophehad, son of Hepha, the son of Gilead, the son of Micah, the son of Manasseh, belonged to the clans of Manasseh son of Joseph.。
The names of the daughters were Marla, Noah, Hogla, Milcah, and Tirzah.。
They came forward and stood before Moses, Elizah the priest, the leaders, and the whole assembly at the entrance to the tent of meeting and said,。
"Our father died in the wilderness. He was not among Korah's followers who banded together against the Lord, but he died for his own sin and left no sons.。
Why should our father's name disappear from his clan because he had no son?。
Give us property among our father's relatives."。
So Moses brought their case before the Lord.。
The Lord said to him, "What Zelophehad's daughters are saying is right.。
You must certainly give them property as an inheritance among their father's relatives and give their father's inheritance to them."。
What's interesting about their story is that it holds a prominent place in scripture.。
It's mentioned five times throughout the book of Numbers, Joshua, and 1 Chronicles.。
So we have to see this as an important incident that the biblical authors want us to take note of.。
See as well, the daughters are all named.。
Again, highly unusual, amplifying this story and the women as important and their actions not to be ignored.。
The daughters of Zelophehad challenged property laws in ancient Israel, which said that only sons could inherit land.。
They chose to approach Moses, Eleazar the priest, and the leaders of the whole assembly.。
Now that is a lot of people right there, and people of power and influence.。
And so no doubt quite intimidating to the sisters.。
But they do so out of a concern for their families and for the name of their father.。
Why should our father's name disappear from his clan because he had no son?。
So they made this request despite the risk.。
Possibly being ostracized from within their own extended family.。
Imagine what their uncles would be thinking who were due to inherit the land, and with that a lot of money.。
It would have put the sisters potentially in a very vulnerable position because they would have controlled what to do with the land.。
They could have asked the sisters to work the land as slaves.。
They could have asked them to leave the land.。
And possibly within their own broader community, they would face ridicule and even rebuke from their spiritual leaders.。
Because after all, this was Torah law.。
So why did they take the risk and not hold back?。
I believe the sisters understood something about what it means to walk in faith with the promises of God.。
The promises of Yahweh.。
They knew they were entering the promised land, and with it the promise of God's provision for their future.。
The law, however, would leave them not only in a vulnerable position, but without land.。
Their father's name would be no more.。
Zelophehad and his family would be forgotten and would not inherit the promised land,。
not inherit promises of God through no fault of their own.。
And that stirs them to speak out.。
I wonder at their courage.。
But I'm also inspired.。
I'm inspired because of how much they trusted God would act justly and ultimately fulfill his promises to provide.。
So let's pause for a moment and ask ourselves,。
honestly, how much do we really trust God?。
Where is our faith in God's promises?。
Or as Andrew reminded us during the Advent season, our wholehearted trust.。
Do we trust God enough to speak up about the things that unsettle us?。
Enough to bring our big questions or our fears, our frustrations and disappointments to God?。
Do we trust him enough not to hold back?。
As the sisters go to Moses, we see Moses respond in a way that should be a lesson for us all,。
especially for those of us who are in this room now watching online,。
where you are holding any position of authority or influence or have power over another.。
Remember, Moses was a spiritual leader of the people, revered and respected, and he knew the law.。
He wrote the law inspired by God.。
And yet he chose to go to God first with this request.。
Why? He could have just said, "No, it's the law. The law is the law."。
I believe this tells us something very special about the relationship that Moses had with God.。
He knew God more than anyone else.。
Moses earned the title, "Friend of God."。
Exodus 33 tells us, "The Lord would speak to Moses face to face as one speaks to a friend."。
I can therefore imagine there was a deep conviction within Moses about the sisters' request。
because he knew God, Yahweh, God of justice, always on the side of the poor and the vulnerable.。
And that stirred Moses in his own humility to bring their case to God, even though he had the law.。
May we always be willing to go to God.。
God first whenever we are unsure of something, and not just assume that we know it all or that we have it right,。
or even assume that somebody else does.。
May we not be afraid to question when something feels unjust.。
Remember the gaps Andrew spoke about at the start of Advent?。
The gaps that the Apostle Paul wrote about in his letter to the Corinthians.。
"I know in part."。
Even the learned Apostle Paul, he did not claim to know everything, and nor should we.。
I also believe this passage teaches us something hugely profound about God and our relationship with Him.。
The laws of the Torah were given by God, but I don't believe for a moment that God accidentally got this law wrong, a mistake.。
Oops, didn't think about that. No.。
But rather God knew the laws could not possibly cover every situation and every evolving circumstances,。
and wanted His people to be responsible to seek wisdom from the principles within God's law.。
He didn't want them just to follow a law for the sake of it without fully understanding God's heart behind the law.。
Not to hold back from being willing to approach God for guidance and wisdom.。
God, don't mishear me, God is the same yesterday, today, and forever.。
But rather we understand God's heart and His character when we are facing those challenging situations that we wrestle with.。
Why do you think Jesus got so angry with the Pharisees? Because of the way that they practiced the law and missed completely the heart of God.。
Ultimately in this account, we see the faith and the courage of five sisters not to hold back.。
And that brought the fulfillment of God's promises and the literal promised land.。
So we cannot assume to know everything God is saying or doing with our own limited knowledge.。
Who God is and what He is doing is so much more than we can possibly fully comprehend.。
We cannot put God in our neat little boxes that suit us.。
But rather we work in our relationship so that we can work with knowing God more.。
And then we can fully comprehend what it means to not hold back because we trust Him, because we call Him friend.。
We are far less likely to make decisions based on what we think we know when we are willing to seek God in prayer first.。
Our second example of not holding back is found in the Gospel of Mark.。
And it's the retelling of Jesus encountering a woman who's been sick for many years whilst on the way to heal a child.。
We pick up the story in Mark.。
A large crowd followed and pressed around him. And a woman was there who'd been subject to bleeding for 12 years.。
She'd suffered a great deal under the care of many doctors and had spent all she had.。
Yet instead of getting better, she grew worse.。
When she heard about Jesus, she came up behind him in the crowd and touched his cloak.。
Because she thought, "If I just touch his clothes, I will be healed."。
Immediately her bleeding stopped and she felt in her body that she was freed from her suffering.。
At once Jesus realized that power had gone out from him.。
He turned around in the crowd and asked, "Who touched my clothes?"。
"You see the people crowding against you?" his disciples answered. "And yet you can ask who touched me?"。
But Jesus kept looking around to see who had done it.。
Then the woman, knowing what had happened to her, came and fell at his feet and trembling with fear, told him the whole truth.。
And he said to her, "Daughter, your faith has healed you. Go in peace. Be free from your suffering."。
I love that Jesus makes a point of stopping and acknowledging this suffering woman after he had healed her.。
And that the writer captures the raw details of her suffering.。
Imagine her life before her encounter with Jesus.。
We don't know a lot about her, but we do know she'd suffered physically, economically, and socially.。
Mark Hite writes this when he says, "She had suffered a great deal under the care of many doctors and had spent all she had, yet instead of getting better, she grew worse."。
According to Jewish law, she would have been considered ceremoniously unclean, which meant for 12 years she would have been enforced in social and religious isolation.。
Imagine her life if she hadn't held back and not touched, Jesus wrote.。
The ongoing suffering, the ongoing hopelessness.。
Then imagine her life after her encounter with Jesus, after she did not hold back.。
Now you could say, "Well, she had nothing to lose by reaching out to Jesus," but actually that's not true.。
She carried a lot of shame in her condition.。
She experienced so far disappointment after disappointment after disappointment.。
She would have been setting herself up for disappointment again if she was not healed.。
Plus the public humiliation.。
She wasn't even allowed to touch another person, otherwise they would be considered ritually unclean.。
So the crowd could have turned against her.。
But she took the risk.。
With faith and courage, she didn't hold back.。
Rather, she literally reached out and touched Jesus and was healed.。
And I wonder if maybe there are some of us today that hold back.。
Because we too believe we have something to lose.。
Maybe you've prayed and prayed and yet to receive an answer or to see change.。
Maybe you have experienced rejection, humiliation, and you're afraid to talk about it.。
Let alone come to God and ask in prayer.。
The woman teaches us that even in our darkest places of shame, fear, disappointment,。
by taking the courage to reach out, she was met with love, compassion, and restoration.。
And we can too.。
Imagine your life if you choose not to hold back.。
So why do we hold back?。
What are some of the obstacles that we face that keep us from truly surrendering to God?。
Shame, societal pressure, faulty beliefs about who God is, complacency, fear, to name a few.。
And I'm sure that there are many other reasons that you would have for holding back.。
I also know that sometimes our prayers are not answered in the way we had hoped.。
And for some of us, the very real sense of disappointment holds us back from being truly honest with God.。
We might think we're being honest, but truly being honest with Him.。
You see, the reality is our world is broken.。
And there is pain and suffering all around us and in our lives.。
But in the midst of this, we have to be able to go to God with our pain。
and trust that we can be completely honest with Him.。
Think of Job.。
The suffering he went through, the death of loved ones, financial ruin, betrayal, physical sickness.。
And through it all, he did not hold back his feelings and his sufferings from God.。
He asked a lot of questions.。
But in the end, whilst in the suffering, and when there was no change in his circumstances,。
there was a shift in his relationship and understanding of God.。
Now we often look at the story of Job, and we immediately know how it ends.。
But don't forget that right in the midst of his understanding of who God truly is,。
he was in the midst of his suffering.。
And I don't think for a moment it was easy for Job to forget all of the suffering,。
to forget the loss of his wife, to forget the loss of his children,。
and all the pain that he had gone through.。
So in this place, he comes to be able to say,。
"My ears had heard of you, but now my eyes have seen you,"。
as he experienced true realization of who God was.。
When we don't hold back, even in our pain, and with our unanswered questions,。
even in the midst of our suffering,。
there is a deep sense of peace and comfort in who God is。
that builds our faith, that builds our trust, and brings us peace.。
And as we remain in this place of being in the now but not yet,。
as we are in the present, as we are waiting in the hope we have。
of the life we will have when Jesus returns,。
in that place, we don't want to hold back.。
So as I was praying about, "Well, how do we respond to that?。
How does a room full of people, those watching online,。
how do you respond to a message? What do you do with that?。
And God, what are you saying to us?"。
And God gave me a picture, and God sometimes speaks to me in pictures.。
He speaks in many different ways, through Scripture and through various different ways,。
and one of them for me is through pictures.。
So He gave me a picture that I would like to share with you.。
And of course, we always test what is being said and how this resonates with you.。
I leave with the Holy Spirit.。
And so the picture that I got was that this whole auditorium, as we are full now,。
everybody here, there were barriers in front of you.。
Do you remember during COVID, you would go into the restaurant,。
and there were the plastic barriers?。
You would sit, and the person in front of you that you were having lunch or dinner or breakfast with,。
there's a barrier, and then there's you.。
It's transparent, but there was still something between you.。
Do we remember that?。
Or have we chosen to put that away and never think about it again?。
Well, the picture I had was that this room was full of people with barriers,。
these transparent barriers, and these transparent barriers were between them and God.。
Now, they thought they knew God.。
They thought that they had a relationship, and they do, but there is a barrier.。
And what God was saying, to remove the barrier so that you do not hold back.。
There is nothing between you and God.。
Some of us feel that there are things that we cannot talk about or say to God.。
That's not true.。
And I felt that God really wanted to impress upon us as we enter into a new year in 2025,。
and if you're part of the Vine, as we enter into this new season of,。
what does it mean to go and take action for God?。
We have to have the relationship with God where there are no barriers,。
and that we can go to Him with everything that we have.。
And so as I thought about some different areas that I believe in this room,。
those watching, are struggling with that are real barriers for you.。
And so I want to mention a few of them, and maybe it's something that resonates with you,。
but I would say, you know, as I was praying earlier, thinking about how do I lead this response?。
What does it look like? I haven't scripted this.。
So how do I lead this?。
I felt that God was saying, "Do you know what?。
Don't hold back as a message for every single one of you in this room.。
Every single one of you."。
And so we all can respond.。
But I also felt that God wanted to share a couple of specific things,。
and the reason why He wants to do that is to show you specifically, individually,。
how real God is and how much He knows your situation.。
Because it's pretty general, right?。
Don't hold back.。
So as I share these different specific areas,。
and, you know, if that relates to you, then we're going to be praying for you.。
We'd love to pray for you.。
And again, I believe that the Holy Spirit, in the picture that I saw,。
He was actually just removing all the barriers.。
It wasn't difficult to remove those barriers.。
You know, you just unplugged it, and it was out the restaurant.。
You know, for God, this is not--He removes barriers by the power of His Holy Spirit,。
and that is what He wants to do.。
So we enter 2025 with nothing in the way of our relationship with God.。
So a couple of things I just want to call out.。
So in the room, there are those that are struggling in a specific relationship.。
You're in a relationship, and you have not talked to God about it at all。
because you're afraid of what God will say.。
It's almost like you have this assumption that He's not going to be happy about it,。
and so therefore you're not talking to Him about it,。
where actually, more than anything, He wants to talk to you about it.。
He wants you to know what it is to be in relationship with Him,。
and to do that, not to be afraid, not to hold the guilt by withholding this.。
So I encourage you, don't hold back. Talk to God.。
In this room as well, there is a struggle with identity.。
You don't want to talk to God about who you are, an identity that you're holding onto,。
because you're so afraid of the judgment. You're so afraid of it.。
I can feel that judgment sitting on you.。
You feel you can't talk about this because it's something that you've hidden for so long,。
and yet God would say to you, "I see you. Talk to me. Don't hold back."。
Often our identities are wrapped in what other people think.。
