Thank you, Carla.。
Good morning, church.。
>> Good morning. >> Good morning.。
Good morning, those who are joining online.。
So it's a great privilege to,。
we can open the word together this morning.。
So as Carla said just now,。
Pastor Andrew opened us a new sermon series on public faith.。
He asked us a question on what should a Christian do。
when the world has gone crazy?。
So I think this is something that we are,。
I'm still wrestling with that。
since last week hearing this word.。
And he also showed us that we are actually。
called to be sought and liked,。
to live out our faith publicly,。
to we feel the love of Jesus for the world.。
And today, we're going to look at。
a very important aspect of our life.。
In fact, the coming weeks,。
we will be looking into different areas of our life.。
But today, we will focus on our work.。
So I believe most of us here。
spend the most hours of our week in our workplace, right?。
And two weeks ago, Pastor John also preached。
on the topic of workplace.。
And he focused on the aspect of how we are called,。
or we are all called to witness Jesus in our workplace.。
And there's no such differentiation。
between sacred and secular.。
And we are all called to evangelize.。
And he gave us some great tips on how to do that as well.。
So if you have missed the past two weeks,。
I would encourage you to go back to YouTube。
and catch up on that.。
But today, we will look into the workplace。
from a very different perspective.。
So we will look into how we live out our faith publicly。
when we are actually doing our work.。
So let's say we all work eight hours per day.。
So I'm sure that we don't spend eight hours per day。
to evangelize, right?。
I would be worried if you do, unless you're a missionary.。
So just to say like, what,。
how do we live out our faith publicly。
when we are actually working,。
when we're actually doing our eight hour work。
during our day?。
As important as it is to evangelize in our workplace。
and to pray for our colleagues,。
this is not the only way to express our faith publicly.。
So last week, Pastor Andrew emphasized on that,。
like being public about our faith。
can be reflected in our lifestyles,。
where our life can reflect the values,。
the behavior, and the character of Jesus.。
Can be shown in our choices we make each day,。
in our habits, in our character,。
in how we think, in how we use our resources.。
So these can be reflected。
in how we work in our workplace as well.。
So how do we make our faith public。
when we are actually doing our daily work?。
How can we demonstrate our values as Christians。
when we are working?。
And how do we live as salt and light in the workplace,。
being a blessing to those who work alongside?。
So to answer these questions,。
maybe we perhaps need to take a step back。
on how we think and how we approach our work.。
Over these years, I've heard a lot Christians。
struggle to see God and see the purposes in their work.。
And at some point, I struggle with that as well,。
if I'm honest.。
So before I joined the staff team of Divine,。
I actually was a paralegal for some years.。
So working in the legal industry。
could make me so occupied。
that I don't actually think about God much when I work.。
Especially at the start of my career.。
I remember in those days, I go back to the office,。
and all my attentions would go to my clients,。
my bosses, overwhelmed by emails and phone calls,。
people chasing me or telling me to do certain things.。
And I was so overwhelmed, my time was so occupied。
that I don't feel that I hear God much.。
Instead, I feel like I'm so occupied。
by the voices of everyone else.。
My bosses, my clients, the people around me.。
I hear so many voices, but God.。
So I felt very disconnected from my faith。
when I was actually working.。
So what I did was, FYI, I don't recommend this,。
I just fill my free time with a lot of Christian activities.。
When I get off work, go to my CG,。
of course go to Sunday services,。
I sign myself up to different Bible studies,。
I serve as well, so that I make sure my schedule。
is very occupied by Christian activities,。
so that I feel that I'm connected with God somehow,。
each day.。
But that was not sustainable,。
because I only had that much energy。
when I was in early 20s.。
But how can we do that?。
So just to say that, echoing with Andrew's。
four different approaches that Christians have,。
I was actually escaping from the reality。
that I don't see God much in my workplace.。
He mentioned four different models。
that Christians might approach。
when we are overwhelmed by the sins of the world,。
of the darkness, and we might, like me,。
escape, or insulate, or we control, or we conform.。
So I believe each one of us is different,。
but somehow when we struggle,。
we might tempt it to do one of these things, right?。
I hope I'm not the only person feeling that way。
when we struggle at our work.。
So I've been hearing a lot of my friends,。
like they tell me, "Oh, when I come to Sunday services,。
"I feel super connected, I feel super spiritually recharged,。
"but on Monday, when I go back to my office,。
"that I feel disconnected again.。
"I really can't see God when I'm actually working."。
But when we look at our bank account, perhaps,。
or our families, then we realize。
we really need to pay the bill,。
so we push ourselves through to continue to work,。
like maybe a little bit disconnected,。
or we feel spiritually and emotionally empty as we work,。
but we push ourselves through not feeling connected.。
Can you resonate with this?。
But is this really everything about work?。
We just, like seeing the purpose of work。
as earning the daily bread for us?。
Let's pause a moment and ask ourselves a question.。
What motivates us to go to work each day?。
And what motivates us to do the work each day?。
Paul in Colossians actually talks about。
how we should approach our work.。
In fact, in the whole chapter three of Colossians,。
he talked about Jesus is risen,。
and we are all raised with him,。
and he is calling us as Christians。
to put our sinful nature to death。
and live fully for Jesus Christ.。
And then he talks about different relationships。
and how Christians should live for Jesus。
in these relationships.。
And when he talks about the relationship。
between slaves and masters, he says this.。
"Whatever you do, work at it with all your heart。
"as working for the Lord, not for human masters,。
"since you know that you will receive an inheritance。
"from the Lord as a reward.。
"It is the Lord Christ you are serving."。
Here, Paul is shifting our perspective。
on how we should approach our work。
and work relationships as Christians.。
He calls us to see all that we are doing。
as a serving to Jesus,。
and we are to do everything for Jesus Christ。
with all our heart.。
But I do want to clarify one thing,。
what Paul is not telling us to do.。
Paul is not asking us to tolerate slavery。
and injustice in our workplace.。
He's not calling us to just brainwash ourselves,。
oh, I'm working it for Jesus,。
so I just continue to suffer as we work.。
This is not what we are called to do.。
Instead, Paul is reminding us that Jesus is sovereign。
in every aspect of our lives,。
and he is bringing transformation to the world.。
So he is calling us as Christians to work with him,。
to live fully for Jesus。
so we can be part of God's redemptive work.。
So as we are working,。
our motivation shouldn't come from the world。
or come from our bosses.。
At the same time, we're not called to disregard everything。
about our human bosses either.。
But he is calling us to do this。
as we are rendering what is right and what is wrong.。
We should be considering what is fitting。
in the Lord as our priority.。
So we need to think about this.。
As we look at our work,。
are we demonstrating the sovereignty of Jesus?。
Are we working as in we are working for Jesus?。
Is there a way for us as Christians to work。
so that we can reflect Jesus is our Lord,。
which is visible to others,。
to the people around us as well?。
What does it look like to be salt and light。
in our workplaces through the way we work。
that reflect the heart and the character of Jesus?。
So from these questions,。
we can talk about a lot of different areas,。
a lot of different characters。
that we can be more Christ-like at our work.。
Jesus demonstrated and talked about different characters。
which we can actually apply to our work.。
We can talk about humility,。
we can talk about generosity and patience,。
or even forgiveness in our workplace.。
But today, I want to focus。
on one very specific characteristic,。
which I feel it is very critical for us as Christians。
to be salt and light and to be public about our faith.。
And I would like to call it。
the Christ-like, Christ-centered integrity.。
So when we hear about integrity,。
I don't know what comes to your mind.。
In English, it means be honest and upright.。
And sometimes we use this word to describe someone。
who demonstrate a very strong ethic.。
Any musical fans in this room?。
Oh, no musical fan in both 950, oh, Susanna, thank you.。
Some musical fans here.。
So when I hear about this word,。
or when people hear about this word, oopsie, nevermind.。
So we might associate that with a character, thank you,。
in Les Mis, Les Miserables, who's Chauvet.。
He really is serious about his work。
in a very legalistic way.。
He sees following the law as serving the Lord Jesus,。
which is very sad to see that character.。
He's very uncompassionate.。
It's very hard for him to receive grace as well.。
But I can talk about this forever,。
but this is not a point to say that.。
We can take integrity, something like this,。
that to be upright,。
something to demonstrate a very strong ethic.。
But in fact, in the Bible,。
the word integrity is so rich in its meaning.。
So I would like to go into the Old Testament a little bit。
to see how the word integrity is used.。
So there are two ways, mostly, in the Old Testament。
of how to use this word integrity.。
And first, it appears as righteousness.。
Zedek, this word.。
So the word is used to describe someone。
who is morally aligned with God,。
and someone whose integrity,。
I think we can understand this,。
morally aligned with God, morally upright and honest.。
But there's another way of using the word integrity。
in the Old Testament, which is tamam.。
So this word means to reach an end and to be completed.。
And the interesting thing is,。
it is frequently used in Leviticus and Numbers.。
The word is in reference to the sacrificial animals,。
which are without blemish and physically whole.。
So I wonder whether it rings a bell in you.。
Because Jesus is the Lamb of sacrifice.。
He sacrificed fully for our sake.。
And same to us, we are called to be a living sacrifice。
to our Lord Jesus as well.。
And are we giving our whole to Jesus?。
If today we ask you to look at our work。
as a sacrifice to Jesus,。
would you say you can offer a whole sacrifice to Jesus?。
I want to clarify this.。
By giving our whole to Jesus at work。
doesn't mean that we work 24/7.。
But it is about to be fully aligned to Jesus。
and submit to his sovereignty in all aspects。
of our lives and of our work.。
We are to align ourselves with his values。
and with his characters in the work that we are doing,。
no matter how big or how small our work is.。
Throughout these years of working in both corporate。
and also ministry, I've seen and heard a lot of Christians。
really desire to work fully for God.。
I'm sure most of us here are like this.。
We really want to work fully for Jesus,。
but the environment is just so difficult。
for us to be able to do that.。
Perhaps our biggest struggle in the work environment。
is that the environment is so broken.。
It's full of brokenness, it's full of sins,。
full of unfairness in our workplace,。
and it seems impossible to change in a short period of time.。
And also it's so common to hear this in our workplace.。
And sometimes I hear this from Christians as well.。
They will say, "I'm not paid enough to do my work."。
Or, "My boss is so mean to people."。
Or, "The company is so unfair in different practices."。
So we just lack of and not giving 100% to our work.。
Or you are seeing in your workplace。
that everyone is doing the bare minimum at work,。
so you just do the same to be fair.。
Or everyone is taking advantage。
of the reimbursement system perhaps,。
so I just do the same.。
Perhaps you are thinking, "I will give my 100%。
"when I get paid enough, or when I get a better boss,。
"or when my company is fair to me finally."。
But I want to say this.。
The reality is the world is not gonna be perfect.。
We will never feel that we're paid enough.。
And there's no perfect human boss or working environment.。
With this mindset, we are depending on the environment。
to shape how we work, instead of allowing our faith。
to shape how we work.。
When we start to allow the environment。
to become our motivation, we are not offering。
that whole sacrifice to Jesus at our work.。
And we have lost our calling to be salt。
and light in this world.。
As Andrew shared last week, being salt and light。
is not only to be different from the world,。
but also to bring changes to the world,。
to add flavor to the world, to preserve the world。
from decaying, and also to bring light to the darkness.。
If we are to let the environment to shape how we work,。
we become darkness in the darkness and tasteless salt.。
To unpack this further, I want to look into a parable。
to see the danger of letting the environment。
to become our motivation at work.。
So we'll look into Luke chapter 16, one to eight.。
Jesus told his disciples, there was a rich man。
whose manager was accused of wasting his possessions.。
So he called him and asked him,。
what is this I hear about you?。
Give an account of your management。
because you cannot be manager any longer.。
The manager said to himself, what shall I do now?。
My master is taking away my job.。
I'm not strong enough to dig and I'm ashamed to beg.。
I know what I'll do so that when I lose my job here,。
people will welcome me into their houses.。
So he called in each one of his master's debtors.。
He asked the first, how much do you owe my master?。
3000 liters of olive oil, he replied.。
The manager told him, take your bill,。
sit down quickly and make it 1500.。
Then he asked the second, and how much do you owe?。
30 tons of wheat, he replied.。
He told him, take your bill and make it 24.。
The master commended the dishonest manager。
because he acted shrewdly.。
For the people of this world are more shrewd。
in dealing with their own kind。
than are the people of the light.。
We might feel a little bit confused here, it's okay.。
Like after reading this parable,。
we will break it down and see what is going on in this story.。
So this parable starts with a rich man。
who heard an accusation about his staff。
wasting his money or resources.。
The word accused here might be implicating that.。
That is a false accusation happening here.。
And his immediate response was to lay off his staff.。
We see the story is very messed up。
in the first sentence, right?。
So the manager, without any opportunity。
to explain or defend himself,。
he immediately thinks about how he should respond。
to this situation.。
Apparently, he still gets a notice period.。
So he's still in the office as a manager of the rich man,。
and out of his fear about the future,。
he has decided to take advantage of his position,。
to lower the debt of his master's debtors。
so that those people owe him a favor。
which could possibly benefit him in the future.。
In the Greco-Roman society, there's a culture。
which when someone gives you a favor,。
you're almost obliged to give back a higher favor.。
So this is what the manager is doing here.。
I wonder whether we can see the chain of effects here.。
In the manager's heart, he probably thinks,。
my boss is unfair to me.。
He trusted other people instead of me.。
He did not even give me a chance to explain。
before laying me off.。
So I'm just gonna use my position。
for my own benefit one last time.。
It's not my fault, but his.。
It sounds familiar, right?。
It sounds like something that we would hear。
in our workplace, because my boss is unfair,。
so I'm gonna make it fair in my own way。
by slacking off perhaps, or by claiming more money。
than I should, et cetera, et cetera.。
So we see that when we suffer from the darkness。
of the world, it is actually an opportunity。
for us to choose, to choose whether we follow。
the Christ-centered value, to demonstrate the integrity,。
or we can choose to follow the world's way,。
to own the values of the world,。
and to extend the suffering,。
and make other people suffer as well.。
This parable is the example of being darkness。
in the darkness, and a tasteless salt.。
And there's one more detail I would like us。
to look into, which is the action。
of reducing the debt amount, and the master's response.。
There are different debates from different scholars。
on how the manager reduced the debt amount.。
Some people said he is actually reducing。
the high interest involved in the debt.。
And some people said he is actually。
maybe eliminating the commissions。
that are supposed for him.。
So actually he is doing a good thing.。
And in fact, at the end, the master commended him。
for acting smartly.。
What he did, by actually benefiting。
for all parties in this story,。
the debtors, they are paying less.。
The master, it's seen to be a generous man,。
like gaining his reputation.。
And the manager is commended by his master.。
So it's a win-win-win situation.。
We don't know the details about interest。
and commission part, but I want us to see that.。
Jesus clearly say that his intention。
was to find security after losing his job.。
And in verse eight, he described the manager。
as a dishonest manager.。
So it could be true that he is doing a good thing。
for everyone, for his master.。
And it could be true that his work is shrewd.。
But Jesus also takes his honesty in his account.。
And Jesus cannot unsee his dishonesty in his heart.。
Same to us, Jesus wants the whole of us.。
He does not only see the product of our work,。
but also our hearts.。
I wonder how it speaks to us.。
I'm sure we're experiencing different things。
in our workplace.。
It doesn't always have to be dishonesty。
or false accusation happening around.。
But we could do all the right things in people's eyes。
and follow all the things that our work requires us to do.。
We can have great influence to the people around us。
and to the society even.。
But are we demonstrating the values that we believe?。
Are we doing the right thing with the right intention。
even when no one sees that?。
How are we making choices when we are facing。
different situations at our work,。
especially difficult situations?。
Will we choose to uphold our values。
even if those are unpopular among our workplaces?。
So I want to share a story about myself。
where there was a time I found my values。
were fairly unpopular in my workplace.。
There was a time that I really struggled。
with my work environment.。
So it was the time that I changed from working。
in a law firm to in-house.。
So the difference is in a law firm,。
90% of our colleagues are legal professionals.。
So you kind of have similar values。
or the professional conduct that we are all following.。
But in-house instead is a commercial company.。
So I work in the legal department.。
So 95% of my colleagues were not legal professional。
and only two of us are.。
So that's the environment I find myself。
really struggle with.。
So I will tell you why.。
There are three reasons, there are three things。
I really struggle with and I still remember.。
And first thing, I really don't understand till today.。
So if anyone understand that,。
can you tell me after the service?。
So I don't know why the staff there are very obsessed。
with knowing the confidential information.。
So the people will come to me, try to make friends。
and then they will ask me,。
oh, tell me something confidential,。
like something like HR movement。
or personal data of a certain staff in our team.。
And then I'm like, but confidentiality。
is one of my biggest commitment to my work。
as a legal professional, right?。
So I can't do that.。
And I'm like, I really don't understand.。
But there are more things.。
The second thing is, there are constantly people come。
and tell me that I supposed to be doing certain things,。
but clearly those are not within the legal scope.。
So I don't think that's the case.。
So I feel like I'm a person with good boundaries.。
So I'm okay with saying no.。
So that's what I did.。
I tried to say no and people would tell me,。
oh, this is something you should do.。
I'm like, no, I don't think so.。
But here's the third thing that I really struggle with.。
Whenever I say no, no matter it's to the confidential things。
or to do certain things I don't supposed to do,。
people will say this to me.。
I'm not kidding.。
Throughout more than two years,。
people say this until I leave the company.。
And they say this to me.。
The previous person in your position would do that.。
And I'm like, what?。
And they go on, they go on.。
This is the worst part.。
They would tell me, she is popular among the company,。
but not you.。
And I'm like, ouch, what have I done?。
And it really hurts me and I really struggle。
with the fact that I'm hearing this,。
if not every week, every other week.。
And I'm like, no, I wasn't like that.。
When I was in law firm, I had good relationship。
with my colleagues.。
What's wrong with me now?。
And I really struggle with,。
am I supposed to do those things they are telling me?。
So I really struggle.。
So of course I pray.。
And then there was one night I was praying。
and Jesus actually remind me of a conversation。
at the very beginning when I did the legal training.。
And he reminded me that, he said this to me,。
"Jennifer, I want you to be different.。
"Not in a sense that you need to be rebelliously different。
"from everyone else, but I want you to be able。
"to discern what is the right thing to do,。
"even when everyone else is telling you the opposite."。
So that was a very timely reminder from God。
when I was really struggling in my workplace.。
And then from that moment on, I have to make a decision.。
I have to choose as well,。
whether I follow all the voices around me。
or I follow the voice from God.。
And of course I could not bear the result。
of not listening to God when he clearly speaks to me.。
So I try, I try to hold on to my values.。
I try to continue to do the work with my values from God。
and also from my professional integrity as well.。
But at the end, I won't say I made a huge impact。
in that company, but God really, by his grace,。
showed me very close to the end of my time there,。
like what impact did I make with upholding my values.。
So I remember there was one colleague, she came to me.。
We didn't talk, we didn't talk much throughout the years。
that we worked there.。
But one day she approached me and she said,。
"Jennifer, I see you demonstrating a different value。
"and a different approach to work,。
"that you are not a fan of pleasing people,。
"and I'm not like work as in I need to help everyone。
"to do their work, but I want people to learn。
"how to grow, how to do their work in their areas of work,。
"which I think is a healthy thing for our company.。
"And then the other thing I see in you。
"is you don't really compromise。
"no matter how people commented on you."。
And that motivated that colleague,。
motivated her to uphold her values in her role as well.。
So I don't know how the story is down to you.。
Perhaps you're expecting a testimony。
with a bigger or more immediate impact.。
But I want to say that each of us constantly live。
in the tension between the values of the world and of Christ.。
And the world and the people around you。
is going to tell you what you're supposed to do。
and how you should act in your company.。
And we will need to choose whether we follow,。
whether we follow those voices or we follow Jesus's voice.。
So it might look different in your context.。
Let me give you some examples.。
If you work in academia, everyone might be telling you。
that you need to focus on writing your papers,。
publish more to earn your academic reputation.。
If you're a salesperson, people around you might tell you。
that you need to reach a target,。
you need to get the most money out of the pocket。
from the person in front of you。
or the company that you're working with.。
Or if you are doing office routine work,。
people might tell you, "Just follow what everyone else does.。
"Don't ask any questions."。
But I want to ask us,。
I want us to constantly ask ourselves this question.。
What does Jesus say about it?。
To those voices, to those questions,。
to those things that people are constantly telling you。
who you should be.。
And I don't think I have a simple answer。
for these questions or I don't have a formula。
for you to follow.。
We do ABC, then we are showing the Christ-centered integrity。
but it is a start of a conversation between you and Jesus。
and it will take a long-term effort.。
It is not like we do something nice。
and we check off the box,。
then we can demonstrate the values.。
Demonstrating the value of Jesus requires two things,。
commitment and persistence.。
First, we need to commit to constantly seek。
what is fitting in Jesus' eyes.。
And then we need to choose to persist。
in following his voice as we work.。
When it comes to the calling of being sought and light,。
it takes consistent effort.。
We need to persist our faith and our value。
in long-term basis and we can expect 100%。
we will face challenges and temptations。
at some point of our lives.。
And we need to always challenge the mindset of,。
everyone else is doing that so I'm gonna do the same.。
You might be thinking, ah, not sure about that, what if?。
I suffer even more if I work differently.。
Or what if my boss and my colleagues。
would take advantage of me。
if I work differently in my environment?。
And I want to say this to us.。
To follow Jesus is also to extend the grace。
and the light we have received from him.。
And the grace that we have received already。
has changed our lives.。
And it is our turn to be sought and light,。
to be different from the world。
and change the state of blondness or darkness around us.。
And see, this is the purpose。
as we are doing our actual work.。
We are demonstrating the light,。
the hope and the grace to people around us,。
although we don't always see it.。
And we will need to hold on to Jesus by faith。
to be able to do that.。
So I really encourage us to really think about it,。
to ask Jesus the question,。
what do you say about the values?。
What do you say about our work?。
So I've shared my story on this.。
In this sermon series, we think it will be nice,。
it will be helpful for us to hear the voice。
from our community as well.。
So today we've invited Chris Webster,。
who is also a great leader in his industry,。
to share his story on how God called him。
to live out a different value in the city of Hong Kong.。
So would you join me to invite Chris to the stage, please?。
(audience applauding)。
Over to you, Chris.。
- Thank you very much, Jennifer.。
That was amazing.。
Integrity, the out, yeah, out,。
when you live as Christ in the workplace.。
How do you cope with that?。
I want to share a spiritual life hack。
that God gave me a long time ago.。
First of all, Moses.。
Somewhat over 3,000 years ago,。
Moses spent his amazing 40 days, 40 nights。
on a mountainside preparing for his new career.。
Can you hear me?。
I've got a bit of a bad throat, thank you.。
It was Moses's second career change,。
and God was very, very merciful to him.。
He downloaded such a lot of information。
to give Moses a clue.。
Everything, social relationships, economic relationships,。
excuse me, the judiciary, the rules for the judiciary,。
the rules for the executive,。
laws over life and death, religion, et cetera.。
First takeaway, possibly, you're going into a new job.。
Download from God what God wants you from that job.。
You're going to a new work week.。
Download what God wants for you that week.。
11 years as dean at Hong Kong U.。
I'm a professor in Hong Kong U still.。
If I had a difficult day, if I had a difficult week,。
I would get up an hour earlier.。
I'd get going two hours earlier。
and make sure I had downloaded what God wanted to say.。
It cuts short meetings very, very efficiently.。
So Moses got that.。
It's recorded in Exodus.。
In the chapters that record it in Exodus,。
there is at the end of that a little pause and summary。
before moving on to describe just how atrociously。
the Hebrews behaved after Moses came down from the mountain,。
golden calf and everything.。
What would God choose to repeat, to summarize?。
The first great commandment,。
the laws of sacrifice,。
the anticipate Jesus' own sacrifice?。
No, actually, the fourth commandment, Sabbath.。
Almost as long ago, when I was doing my A-levels in London,。
Jesus whispered in my ear a little challenge.。
He said, "Will you live your life and your career。
"by the spirit of the Sabbath?"。
Spirit of the Sabbath.。
We all know what the law of the Sabbath is.。
Let me tell you what the spirit of Sabbath。
at least meant for me.。
Excuse me.。
We have seven days a week to do anything.。
Seven days, Hebrews, seven days a week to plow,。
to plant, to water, to fertilize, to harvest,。
to collect the straw.。
I've worked in the harvest on a farm.。
I know that seven days is important.。
You do not miss the seventh day of a week.。
At Hong Kong, students, university, school,。
everybody around you will be studying,。
working for seven days.。
You will be at a disadvantage if you Sabbath, right?。
Naturally speaking.。
Supernaturally speaking, God will always come through。
for you, that's the spirit.。
It's trust.。
The Sabbath is a kind of manifestation。
of the great virtue of meekness.。
Meekness means you have power, you have resources,。
but you choose not to use it.。
One of Jesus' greatest characteristics。
in his incarnation.。
He laid down his majesty and became son of man。
and son of God, and God raised him up.。
So I did A-levels.。
I tried very hard.。
Saturday, I would stop revising,。
take a Sabbath on the Sunday.。
Not necessarily a Sunday, 'cause it's not legal, remember?。
It's principle.。
First degree, undergraduate degree.。
Degree exams coming up the next day.。
On a Monday, clear the revision by Saturday.。
Postgraduate degrees, work interviews,。
preparing for that massive talk I've got to give。
in Europe somewhere.。
Sabbath, quiet, peace, trust.。
It's all about trusting God.。
So how does that impact on all the things。
that Jennifer has talked about?。
'Cause that's my discipline, okay?。
It's not going in and evangelizing.。
It's not going into work and telling people。
what a great religious Christian I am.。
How does it impact?。
Well, I think it impacts like this, essentially.。
Revelations 19.。
The spirit of prophecy is the testimony of Jesus.。
It reads the other way around as well.。
The testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.。
When you take time out like that,。
you fast, you pray, you Sabbath.。
You draw close to Jesus and the Father,。
the Son and the Holy Spirit draws close to you.。
And you don't tell people that you're doing it.。
Like praying and fasting, Sabbathing is a secret thing.。
Jesus says, do it in secret.。
And your Father who is in heaven。
will see and reward you in heaven。
for what you're doing in secret.。
And how does he reward you?。
He gives you more of the spirit of prophecy,。
more of the spirit of Jesus.。
And then you go into work and you find that, excuse me,。
you find that your own shabby integrity。
falls like dirty rags from you.。
And it is the integrity of Jesus。
embodied in the Holy Spirit that empowers you.。
You become sharper, you become more loving, kinder boss.。
You become wiser, you become more just,。
better able to balance judgment and mercy.。
I think that's a great definition of justice.。
Justice is only fully embodied in Jesus Christ.。
So you have the spirit of Jesus on you.。
You become a just person, you balance judgment and mercy.。
You become a better servant,。
whether you're a leader or a follower, you're a servant.。
And the body of Christ becomes your body and your spirit.。
Thank you very much.。
(audience applauding)。
- Thank you so much, Chris.。
So Chris really demonstrated a very, very different value。
from the city of Hong Kong, from Hong Kong of people,。
to really be obedient to God's command。
on Sabbath, on resting.。
So I'm sure the different stories will speak to us。
and each person, we have different stories,。
we have different areas that we are working on.。
And I'm sure God has different things to say to you。
in terms of the specific, unique things。
that you are going through right now.。
So right now I would like to close us in prayer.。
Can I invite you all to stand。
and we would like to pray together.。
So first of all, I want to pray for those。
who feel you're really struggling at work.。
You struggle to see God, to even continue to work.。
So at the moment we will pray for you.。
So if you are one of that, encourage you to also,。
to bring your struggles to God as well。
and ask him for his grace for you to continue。
and to see what God has for you in the coming season.。
And I also want to pray for us。
on how we are hearing different voices。
from the world when we work.。
And we'll pray for you that you will hear God's voice。
clearly and to be filled by the Holy Spirit,。
to really uphold his value, to be his salt and light。
because with our own strength, we can't do that.。
So let's pray together.。
Jesus, we thank you.。
We thank you that you called us to work.。
You give us purpose to work.。
And you allow us to be part of your redemptive work.。
We thank you for that.。
And Lord, we want to right now live up our brothers。
and sisters who are struggling with their workplace,。
maybe their work environment,。
or maybe their intense hours of the work.。
Lord, we ask for your grace.。
We ask that your grace will be enough for each of us。
to be able to continue to flourish in our workplace,。
to be able to see you,。
to see your purposes in our workplace.。
So Jesus, we ask that you come and help us,。
especially to help those who are suffering among us.。
And Jesus, we want to live up all the work environment,。
struggles, all the different voices that we hear each day.。
And we confess that those voices sometimes。
impact us as well.。
Sometimes we are unable to hear your voice because of that.。
But Lord, would you help us?。
We come and we ask the questions to you that,。
what do you say about my work?。
What do you say about the values,。
the words that we are hearing each day?。
We want to hear you.。
So Jesus, would you speak to us on that?。
And also we want to ask for your spirit to fill us.。
We pray that you will allow us to grow。
in hearing your voice and in persisting to do your work,。
to be more like you in our work.。
Holy Spirit, we ask for your help。
because we acknowledge our limitation.。
With our own strength, it's impossible for us to do that.。
So Holy Spirit, we call for your power.。
We call for your wisdom.。
We call for your strength to fill us,。
to allow us to work for you each day.。
And we pray that your grace is enough for us each day.。
And we pray in Jesus' name, amen.。
