Well it's good to be here. Happy Easter everyone. And what I want to share with。
you is I a while actually it's quite a while ago I did a very risky investment.。
So I invested in a stock and at first my investment was doing incredible. So my。
stock price started you know just kept going up and I was like wow I'm like I'm。
good at this you know whoo I felt like an investment guru. And then suddenly。
kind of flattened out sort of fluctuating the stock so I was like。
maybe I should monitor this a bit more. So I got up every day when the New York。
Stock Exchange opened you know I was watching how my stock was doing. And at。
first I was okay but after a while it actually became a little bit stressful.。
How my day was going was based on how that stock was doing. And then suddenly。
my stock dropped and just started plummeting. And by the time I was able to。
sell my shares I actually lost quite a bit of money. And as I was reflecting on。
that experience I realized that how I was doing emotionally every day was tied。
to how my stock was performing. My external circumstances were dictating。
how I was feeling internally. So when the stock was going up I was feeling good.。
And when the stock was going down there was fear, there was anxiety and there was。
a lack of peace. Now I believe that I'm not the only one who has this experience.。
And I'm not just talking about investing in stocks I believe in other。
areas of our lives as well. Because the thing is that for most of us our sense。
of peace, our sense of well-being is connected to our external circumstances。
and how they are going. Right? So for example when things are going well in。
our relationships, our jobs, our finances, with our children, with our health, with。
our investments, we're like "whoo" you know life can be good. And even then。
sometimes we still even when those things go on sometimes we still don't。
have peace. But a lot of times those are times when we can feel feel good and we。
can feel well when things are going well. But suddenly when there's a change。
when those things change and they can change quite quickly this this peace。
that we had suddenly is gone. And a lot of times there's fear, there's anxiety,。
there's other things that that we're experiencing. And at one point or。
another we all come to this point in our lives you know whether it has to do with。
investments or with your relationships or your job or you can fill in the blank.。
We come to a point where we just long for peace. We just want to be well. We。
don't want to just live in this anxiety, this fear, the stress. We don't want to。
have this troubled heart. And we just want a peace that is not dependent on。
our circumstances. We want a peace that doesn't rely on our external circumstances.。
And so what I want to do with you today as we are celebrating Easter and we're。
excited that Jesus died and that he rose. I want to explore with you a question.。
And the question that I want to explore with you is how can I have a peace that。
is not dependent on my circumstances? And does a peace like that actually really。
exist or is that just fantasy? And then what does Easter have to do with all of。
that? So does that sound good? Yes? Okay good. Thank you for the strong yes from。
over there. So we're going to explore through our messages question. They。
were in the Gospel of John. And so I want to set a little bit the context before we。
go into our actual passage. So the disciples of Jesus, they've been hanging。
around with Jesus. They've been journeying with him. They've been learning from him.。
Disciple means learner. So they're learning from Jesus. They're part of all。
these exciting things that Jesus is doing. And it's amazing and it's exciting.。
And so they spent three years with him and now they're heading to Jerusalem.。
And they're excited. This is the moment. They're excited because they believe。
Jesus is going to set up his kingdom. He's going to drive out the Romans. He's going。
to free them from oppression. He's going to bring justice and peace. And they're。
going to get to be part of that. They are going to get the part of this experience.。
But as we most of us know, that's not what happens. What happens instead is。
that Jesus is betrayed by one of his disciples. That he gets arrested. That he。
gets an unjust trial. That he is crucified. And that he dies on the cross.。
Now if you if you think about this for the disciples, you know they they had。
dreams and were anticipating a future. They were excited about it and suddenly。
all of that is shattered. And that is gone and they're just disoriented. And so。
that's that's the place that they find themselves in. But then on the third day。
something incredible happens. Jesus rises from the dead. And John and Peter, they're。
they're going to the grave. And I always find it hilarious if you read the Gospel。
of John. John notes that he was faster than Peter. That he outran Peter to the。
grave. I always find that a funny detail in the Bible. But when they when they go。
inside, they find the linens of Jesus. That his body was wrapped in. But his。
body and Jesus is not there. And John understands. And he believes, we're told.。
But he's not the only one who is at the at the tomb. It's also Mary, one of the。
disciples. And and she is in such grief. She talks to who she thinks is the。
gardener. But it's not the gardener. It's actually Jesus. But she can't tell. And。
then he calls her by her name. He says, "Mary." And and her eyes are open and she。
sees him. You know, a Rabbouni Lord. And she she recognizes him. And he tells her to。
tell the disciples. So all of this happens in the morning. And we're gonna。
pick up the story now where the narrative shifts to the evening. So。
that's what we're gonna look at. So we're in John chapter 20 verse 19 through 22.。
And it says this, "On the evening of that first day of the week, when the disciples。
were together with the Dorzak for fear of the Jewish leaders, Jesus came and he。
stood among them and said, 'Peace be with you.' After he said this, he showed them。
his hands and sighed. The disciples were overjoyed when they saw the Lord. Again。
Jesus said, 'Peace be with you. As the Father has sent me, I am sending you.' And。
with that he breathed on them and said, 'Receive the Holy Spirit.'" So the disciples。
they're in hiding. Now I don't know if everyone here has ever needed to hide.。
Now we're not talking about hide-and-seek. We're talking about really hiding for。
their life, scared to be killed. So disciples are hiding. They're tucked。
away in some house, locked doors and all. Because they think what happened to。
Jesus is gonna happen to them. They're next. That's what they're thinking. And so。
they're hiding away. And just put, just let's try to put ourselves in their。
situation. A week ago they're in freedom. They have peace. They're with Jesus and。
things are going well. They're excited about the future. And then now they find。
themselves hiding in fear and anxiety, a lack of peace and probably no。
expectations about future. More like dreading the future. They're not excited。
about the future at this point. And it's amazing how quick our circumstances can。
change. And we all know that. We've experienced that where something just。
happens and what you know something was good and then suddenly it's not good。
anymore. And then a miracle occurs. Jesus, he steps into the room where they are。
hiding. He stands among them. And I don't want you to miss this. The disciples they。
are in fear. They're living in anxiety. They're lacking faith. Mary probably told。
them what she saw but they just struggled to believe. They're still in。
hiding. And Jesus, he meets them in their anxiety, in their fear, and their lack of。
faith. You know a lot of times we think we need to get our act together and then。
come to Jesus. But Jesus steps into our issues, our brokenness, our lack of fear.。
And that's what's happening here. That's amazing. And so the resurrected Jesus。
with his love and his grace, he meets them. So Jesus meets the disciples where。
they are in their fear, their failure, and all the uncertainties that they are。
facing. And that is true for us today here as well. Jesus meets us in our fears,。
in our failures, and our uncertainties, and our lack of faith. And just like he。
stepped into the room with the disciples even though the doors were locked, Jesus。
steps into our lives, into our places, and he stands among us. And he says, "Peace be。
with you." Now I don't know what what's been going on in your life. You know。
maybe there's been relationship problems. Maybe there's family issues, drama in。
your family. Maybe there's job issues. Maybe you had a bad investment. I don't。
know. But Jesus is able and willing to step into your situation. Maybe you had a。
personal failure. You know we're stupid sometimes. We do really dumb things. And。
there's a lot of shame. But it doesn't keep Jesus from stepping into your life.。
And he's saying, "Peace be with you." This is what Jesus does. That's what Jesus does.。
That's why we're celebrating Easter. Because he steps into our brokenness. And。
he shows us his love and grace. That's what he did with the disciples. He stood。
among them. They had betrayed him. They had left him. They were not by his side。
when he was arrested and and was on trial. You know what? Jesus meets them。
nonetheless. He shows them his compassion, his love, and grace. So if anyone here。
today is feeling like they don't deserve it, Jesus wouldn't want me, it's not true.。
He loves you. He wants you. He desires you. He wants you to know that he is right。
here and he wants to speak peace over your life. Come on. And so the disciples。
they finally... actually the disciples are there and they're confused. It's even。
though Jesus has stepped in their midst, it's not clear yet. And so in verse 20 it。
says this, "After he said this, he showed them his hands and his side and the。
disciples then they were overjoyed when they saw the Lord." You know, Jesus revealed。
himself to them. They couldn't recognize him. But he makes sure that they know he's。
not one of the authorities that's trying to kill them. It's him. It is him. And he。
wants to reveal himself to you as well. It is Jesus in our brokenness and in our。
circumstance. He wants to reveal himself to you and say, "Peace be with you and。
speak over your life." And so I also want you to note that this is also the point。
of faith. The disciples, they were lacking faith. They were struggling to。
comprehend what had happened, which I think we can understand, right? I mean, who。
can in their mind fathom that Jesus has risen from the dead? It doesn't matter for。
an ancient person or a modern person. This is just hard to understand. But it。
has happened. And they see it. It is revealed to them. And they call him Lord,。
which shows that they know who he is. And it also shows that he's their Lord. So。
this is a declaration of faith. Now Jesus had promised them before his。
crucifixion that, you know, after his death that he would turn their sorrow。
into joy. You can read about that in John 16, verse 20 through 22. We're not going。
to go there today. But if you're interested, you can look that up. And。
that's what's happening now. Jesus has turned their fear into faith and their。
sorrow into joy. And I believe for some of us, that's what Jesus wants to do。
today. He wants to take us on a journey. He wants to take us from a place of fear。
and anxiety to a place of faith. He wants to build faith in us. And that doesn't。
matter whether you're not a Christian yet or whether you're Christian. He wants。
to build faith in his people. And he also wants to move us from sorrow, from a。
place of mourning, of grieving, of disorientation. And he wants to move us。
to joy. Because he is the only one who has the power to do this. He can go in。
those locked places into our hearts where we don't let anyone else in. Maybe。
even things we're grieving that nobody else knows about. And he can turn your。
life, my life, around. And that's what we're celebrating today with the baptism.。
Because Jesus has stepped into the baptism candidates' lives. He has stepped。
in their lives. He has given them peace. We heard about earlier from Anne. He gave。
Anne peace. He met her as she was worshipping. He was making herself known。
to her. That's what Jesus does. And so this is your day. This is your day where。
Jesus wants to start taking you on this journey from fear to faith and from。
sorrow to joy. Don't miss this moment. Otherwise why bother coming here? He。
wants to take you on this journey.。
So then I'll just wrap up really quickly this passage and get to the part that I。
really want to focus on. So in verse 21 through 22, you know, Jesus says。
again, he said, Jesus said, "Peace be with you." So it's repeated twice. When。
something's repeated twice, it's always important. "As the Father has sent me, I am。
sending you." And with that, he breathed on them and said, "Receive the Holy Spirit."。
And so Jesus, he is again declaring his peace to them. And he's calling them. He's。
commissioning them, his disciples, to be part of his peace-bringing work in this。
world, this peace-bringing mission in this world. But he doesn't just ask them。
to do it. He also breathes on them. He gives them the Holy Spirit. They are born。
again and they're empowered to carry out this work, to be peacemakers in other。
people's lives and to share the good news of peace that is available in Jesus. So。
what I really want to focus with you on today is。
I just want to also say we love our family and we love our children and that。
is absolutely no problem. Okay? Exactly. We're at peace. Yeah. Because we want the。
whole family to be here. You know, we're a family church. And so, but what I want to。
focus with you on is this phrase, "Peace be with you," that's repeated twice. That's。
what I want to lean in with you today. And so it's important to know that in the。
Gospel of John, there's a lot of times when Jesus says something, there's a。
surface level of meaning and then there's a deeper level of meaning. And so。
on a surface level meaning, Jesus is just saying, "Hi. Peace be with you." It's just a。
greeting. It's like saying, "Hi." But of course, there's more to it than just。
saying, "Hi." There's a steeper meaning. So Jesus' greeting, "Peace be with you,"。
shows that he no longer holds their failures against them. He offers the。
disciples a restored relationship because they had abandoned him. They had,。
you know, he could have rebuked him. "Why did you leave me? Why did you not stand。
with me? You first have to show me that you, you know, love me, that you're worthy。
of my time and my presence." But it's not what Jesus does. You know, he meets them。
and he says, "Peace be with you." He forgives them. He restores them into the。
relationship with him. And I just love this grace. I was, I'm trying to teach。
Ellie German, so I have a nine-month-old daughter. It's not easy in Hong Kong as。
the only German speaker in my household. And so there's a song that I've been。
singing and it's about, you know, God's love is this high. God's love is so deep.。
God's love is so wide, you know, and so, you know, and I mean this is, this is。
what, this is here shown, you know, in what Jesus does. His grace, his love is so。
high. Nothing can be higher, so deep, nothing medieval, so wide. Nothing can be wider.。
And it's so wonderful, big. I don't know if there's an English version of that。
song. Okay, good. I don't know. You can teach me how to do it. I just only know in。
German. And then Jesus is offering his disciples a peace, but he actually had。
promised them this peace even in the Last Supper. Before he, you know, died, he told。
them that he would give them peace. And so we're in John 14, verse 27, and that's。
where he says this, "Peace I leave with you, my peace I give you. I do not give to。
you as the world gives. Do not let your hearts be troubled and do not be afraid."。
Excuse me. So when Jesus talks about peace be with you, he's not just greeting。
them, he's not just saying hi, he's giving them supernatural peace, a peace that the。
world cannot give, a peace that runs so much deeper, is so much wider, is so much。
higher than anything that we can imagine. That's what Jesus does. And it's a。
supernatural peace. We cannot bring this about. Your friends cannot give that to。
you. You cannot earn it. It's just a gift that Jesus wants to bestow on those who。
trust him and who know him. So Jesus has a peace to offer that the world cannot。
offer. It is only available by him. And I want to highlight two things. First, the。
peace that Jesus gives, and then secondly, the peace that the world gives.。
And I want to unpack that a little bit. I'll start with the peace that the world。
gives. Now, on all these things you could say a lot more, so I have to keep。
it simple. But the peace that the world offers is usually based on external。
circumstances. Good finances, good health, good relationships, job, economy,。
political stability, you know, all that stuff. But the problem is that it's。
not a secure peace, because this peace is based on circumstances and they can。
change quickly. You know, my wife Chris and I, we went hiking with someone. We。
didn't know him. A friend introduced them. And then a few months later, she told me。
that this person took their lives, because his investments went down, because。
he didn't. And honestly, I actually had a conviction. I was like, why didn't I。
tell him, talk to him about Jesus? Why didn't I tell him about the peace, you。
know, that Jesus can give? Because if our peace is dependent on our。
circumstances, you know, we are gonna be standing left empty-handed, because。
the circumstances in life, a lot of times they change. And then even if。
they don't change, it doesn't mean that we have peace. You can have the perfect。
family. You can have the perfect, the awesomest, awesomest husband, wife, children,。
job, you can still lack peace. And Jesus wants to give us a peace that's。
different than the world's peace. And so on top of it all, even if our。
circumstances are good, it does not mean that we're good. You know, peace is, based。
on circumstances, is not a secure peace. It is an incomplete peace, a counterfeit。
peace that fools us into believing we're secure. That's the world's peace. That's。
the peace that the world gives. It promises us it looks good, we believe it, but it's。
not true. It is not true. You becoming super rich, yes, gives some security, but。
it's not ultimate security. It's not ultimate peace. But we believe this lie,。
don't we? That's the world's peace, but that's not what Jesus gives. So what does。
Jesus give? Well, let's look at how Jesus' peace is different from the world's。
peace. There's two things I want to point out. The peace with God and a peace of。
God. Those are two dimensions of the peace that Jesus is offering to all of。
us here right now. First, let's look at what it means to have peace with God. In。
John 20, verse 22, it says, "And with that he breathed on them and said, 'Receive the。
Holy Spirit.'" So Jesus, who is God with us now, has done what God did at the。
beginning of creation. We can read about that, how he gave Adam and Eve life when。
he breathed into them, breathed into Adam. Genesis 2, verse 7 says this, "Then the。
Lord God formed a man from the dust of the ground and breathed into his。
nostrils a breath of life, and the man became a living being." And now Jesus, he。
does this in a similar way. He breathes on the disciples, he gives them new life, he。
gives them resurrection life, and he pours out his peace with God. And I love。
Raymond Brown, who is a biblical scholar, or what was, he was an incredible biblical。
scholar, and so he has a quote, and I just want to read this quote to you. It says。
this, "Just as in the first creation God's breath brought into existence a human。
being in his image and likeness, so now Jesus' gift of his own Holy Spirit makes。
the disciples God's children in the likeness of the Son. Now they are born of。
the Spirit. The breath of God in Genesis gave life. The breath of Jesus gives。
eternal life." So it's the Holy Spirit that brings us new life. It's。
Jesus breathing on his people and bringing us from death to life. That's。
what we're, again, we're celebrating today in baptism, that we were dead in our sins,。
we were separated from God, and because of this work of God in our lives, the。
saving, the sealing, this renewal, and this peace-giving work, we are raised to new。
life. And it's by the breath of Jesus pouring out his new life, his resurrection。
life, into our life. And like all spiritual blessings, peace with God。
cannot be earned. We don't deserve it. It's just a gift that we can receive, that。
Jesus makes available to us. And it is available to all. So the first aspect of。
the peace that Jesus gives to those who place their trust in him is the peace。
with God. Peace with God comes upon us when we receive the gift of the Holy。
Spirit, are born again, and our relationship with God is restored. And a。
lot of times, for a lot of people who become Christians, one of their。
experiences is that they experience peace. You know, sometimes that peace is because。
maybe we sense this estrangement and disconnection from God, and when that。
relationship is restored, you know, we feel whole, because that's how we're。
meant to be in relationship with God, and it's just peace comes upon us. And so for。
me, I know that was my experience when I became a Christian, that I had no peace,。
and I really had no peace. I was living in anxiety and fear. I was fearful every。
night, and then Jesus came into my life, and I had peace for the, you know, like。
that was, that took me out of that place of darkness. Now let's look at the。
second type of peace that Jesus gives. It's the peace of God. So the last。
sentence of John 14 verse 27, it says this, "Do not let your hearts be troubled。
and do not be afraid." Now what this implies is that Jesus is assuming that。
the disciples find themselves in circumstance where it is human for the。
hearts to be troubled, and it would be human for them to be afraid, because。
there is stuff going on that deserves that sort of response. But he's saying,。
"Do not let your hearts be troubled and do not be afraid." And that's the type of。
peace that Jesus, you know, bestows on his people, a peace that is not dependent on。
our external circumstances, a peace that we can know despite of what's going on,。
despite of things raging around us. And it's a peace that is greater than。
our anxiousness, our fear, our hopelessness, our despair. And Jesus, that's what he。
wants to give us. Now I don't know if you've experienced this type of peace.。
Sometimes as Christians, it doesn't always mean that we're living with the。
peace of God. Now when I was younger, I felt a call out of investing, which was。
probably good after I shared my opening story, and I felt called to this, you know,。
into NGO missions. I didn't know exactly what, so I quit my job, but I had nothing。
lined up. I just felt God asking me to take that step, and I did. But then suddenly,。
I got anxious, and the people around me got anxious. My parents got anxious.。
They're like, "You made the biggest mistake of your life. You threw your career。
away," you know, like, and they're well-meaning, but I started getting。
anxious and was fearful. And again, I had nothing lined up, so I'm like,。
they're empty-handed. It's like, maybe this wasn't a great idea.。
That's how I felt, but I prayed, and Jesus gave me peace. Despite of all this。
anxious around me of people who loved me or were well-meaning, and God settled my。
heart, and I was able to navigate that time. Or I've experienced in conflicts,。
you know, where there's a horrible conflict. And it's not like we can always。
resolve conflicts because it takes two people to resolve something.。
And I've experienced when I come in prayer to Jesus, you know, that he just gives me。
a peace. Even if this conflict keeps going, and there's nothing that I can do,。
maybe I've already owned whatever I need to own as conflict. I've said what I need。
to say, and it still doesn't matter. You know, and I've experienced Jesus giving。
me peace in these situations where it is a supernatural peace. And so I'm sure for。
many of you, you've experienced that peace in different ways, in different seasons.。
Maybe it's in sickness, you experience a peace of Jesus. Now, when we receive the。
peace of God through Jesus, we no longer have to be anxious or fearful during times。
of trouble in our lives. The peace that Jesus gives us is bigger than our。
circumstances. And in trusting things to Jesus, something that we can choose to do。
daily. It's actually a journey. It's not something we do one time and that's it.。
It's something that we do on an ongoing basis, that we trust Jesus,。
that we place whatever's going on in his hands. And actually, Apostle Paul,。
he writes about it in Philippians 4, verses 6 through 7, so I want to read this to you.。
That's also where the phrase, "The peace of God," where that is taken from.。
"Do not be anxious about anything, but in every situation, by prayer and petition,。
with thanksgiving, present your requests to God. And the peace of God,。
which transcends all understanding, will guard your hearts, your minds,。
and Christ Jesus." Notice what it does not say. It does not say that Jesus will take。
away our circumstances. Now, of course, he can do that too. But it says that Jesus。
will give us a peace that transcends all understanding. He will guard our hearts,。
our minds, and Christ Jesus. And this word, "guarding," that is used,。
it's actually a military term, like from a garrison, guarding a city.。
So in ancient cities, you had these military garrisons that had protected a。
city from attacks. And God is saying, "I'm protecting you when fear,。
when anxiety, when uncertainty comes. I'm going to fight and battle that off.。
I'm going to battle that away from you." So despite of what's going on,。
that you can experience the peace of God in the midst of everything.。
I was once in Albania, in a mountain village in the middle of nowhere.。
There were arranged marriages, young women who had become Christians,。
who had to marry into Muslim families. And for them, there was a lot of fear。
and anxiety because they're not able to practice their faith publicly.。
But they knew the peace of God. He had given them this peace.。
They were actually an encouragement to me as I met them. So it's amazing that Jesus。
gives us the peace of God. That's part of the blessing of being a Christian.。
It's part of the peace that is available to us here and now.。
As we learn to entrust ourselves to God through prayer, we get to know that He is。
committed to us and Jesus is committed to you. You know how we know that?。
We see that through the cross, how Jesus feels about us because He decided to go。
to the cross for our sake. He's committed to us. He's giving everything,。
everything to you. So He's not going to withhold this from you.。
He's not going to withhold this from you. And as we entrust ourselves with Him,。
we get to know His love and His care, and we also get to experience our anxieties,。
our fears, how they can melt away in His presence and our hearts can become still.。
So if we know and follow Jesus, our peace is no longer based on our。
external circumstances. We can walk through difficult times and。
experience God's care and peace in the middle of it, through it all.。
So we receive the peace with God and a peace of God.。
Now, earlier I asked the question, "How can I have the peace that is not。
dependent on the circumstances?" Well, we can have it through a trusting。
relationship with Jesus, where we place our trust in Jesus and we。
become followers of Jesus. Now, I wonder, earlier we talked about。
disciples being in a room, being locked up, and Jesus stepped into that situation。
of their fear, their lack of faith, their anxiety.。
Now, I just wonder what sort of situation Jesus is stepping into here right now。
today in your life. And what's been happening with you,。
where there's been anxiety, where there's been fear, where there has been a lack。
of peace, and where Jesus steps and he says, "Peace be with you."。
And he wants to take away this anxiety, this fear, and just let you know his love。
and his presence so you can find rest and peace in him.。
So Jesus is offering a peace to you right now.。
I want to invite the worship team to come up.。
So we receive this peace when we place our trust in Jesus,。
whether that's for the very first time and we become Christians,。
or whether that is we keep entrusting ourselves to him with what's going on。
in our lives, different circumstances. And then when we do that,。
when we entrust ourselves to him, something transformers happens.。
When Jesus pours out his spirit, we are born again and we are strengthened。
in our faith. And he just does this new and beautiful work in us,。
in our hearts, in our lives. And this is what we're celebrating today。
on Easter, and this is what we're celebrating with our baptism candidates,。
this peace-bringing work of Jesus. Peace with God and the peace of God.。
I want to invite you right now to actually receive this peace,。
this peace that Jesus wants to pour out in your life.。
Don't miss your moment. This is your moment.。
If you want to become a Christian, I just want to invite you。
with a simple prayer and how you can do that.。
And the prayer, basically, all that we say is we're sorry,。
we say thank you, and we say please. And I want to talk you through that。
so you know what prayer I'm going to invite you to pray.。
We say sorry, and we ask God to forgive us for all that we've done wrong.。
Because we all, we fail God. We all have things in our hearts。
that are just not pretty, things we've done that are not pretty,。
and we need his forgiveness. We say, "Sorry, God, forgive me."。
Second, we say, "Thank you, Jesus, for your forgiving work on the cross.。
Thank you that you died and rose and that you give forgiveness a new life."。
And then finally, we say, "Please, come into my life.。
Fill me with your spirit and show me what it means to know and to follow you."。
So I want to invite right now everyone to close their eyes.。
And if you would like to take the step of becoming a Christian,。
of following Jesus, I want to actually ask you to raise your hand.。
And raising your hand is a step of faith.。
You know, we do this because we're responding to the Holy Spirit moving to us.。
And maybe we're sitting there and there's like, we're stirring and we're not sure.。
This is the Holy Spirit working and speaking to you.。
Just want to encourage you to just raise your hand, take the step of faith.。
And so I'm going to lead us now in a prayer, and I'm going to ask everyone to pray along。
and to follow along just to support those who are praying this prayer.。
I'm going to pray a line, and then you can repeat it out loud.。
And let's be loud. Let's not be super quiet, okay?。
And I'm going to pray the next line.。
And this is how you can receive this peace of Jesus that I've just been talking about this whole time.。
So let's do this right now.。
Jesus, I am sorry for all the wrong that I have done.。
Please forgive me.。
Thank you, Jesus, that you died on the cross and rose.。
So that my sins can be forgiven.。
And I can receive your gift of new life in you.。
Please come into my life.。
Fill me with your Holy Spirit.。
And give me your peace.。
Amen.。
God's word says that when we confess with our mouth that Jesus Christ is Lord, we are saved.。
So if you have prayed this prayer for the very first time, you know, you have experienced Jesus' saving work.。
Sometimes we feel a lot of emotions.。
Sometimes we don't.。
Sometimes we feel peace right away.。
Now, if you pray this prayer for the first time, I also want to encourage you to come and talk to one of the pastoral team.。
We would just love to encourage you, pray for you, and also just help you with, you know, what next step do I take?。
What do I do?。
Why would you know what to do?。
We just want to encourage you and walk with you in that.。
But I want to invite everyone to stand.。
And I actually want to pray for everyone else as well.。
Because just because we're Christian doesn't mean that we have peace.。
Because it doesn't mean that we're inviting Jesus into what's going on.。
So I just want to pray over you right now.。
So let me pray.。
Jesus, thank you that you are the one who died and rose.。
Thank you that you are the one who gives peace.。
A peace that is not dependent on our circumstance.。
A peace that is greater than our circumstances.。
And Jesus, just like you stepped into the disciples' situations, I pray right now that you step into everyone's situations where there's anxiousness, where there's fear, where there's hopelessness, where there's despair, where there's a lack of faith.。
Where we've been just carrying a heavy heart.。
Where we don't know what to do.。
And I pray that right now, Lord, you speak these words of us over every single heart.。
Peace be with you.。
Peace be with you.。
That you strengthen your people.。
That you remove the anxiety and anxiousness and whatever else is going on.。
And fear.。
And that you give us faith.。
And that you allow us to rest in your peace, Jesus.。
I pray for rest in your presence.。
I pray for, yeah, just rest, despite of what's going on around us.。
So I pray right now that you just bless your people.。
Holy Spirit, that you will do your beautiful work.。
I pray this in your name, Jesus.。
And all God's people said, amen.。
Let's worship.。
[Applause]。
