So good to be with you this morning.。
My name's Andrew, I'm one of the pastors here at The Vine.。
And if you're new to The Vine, welcome,。
we're so glad you're here.。
Maybe you're new to the city,。
getting settled into Hong Kong.。
And if that's the case and you're looking for a church,。
there's a lot of great churches in our city,。
we encourage you to have a look around。
and experience some of the different churches in the city.。
But if this becomes your home, we're glad that it will be.。
And we're here to serve and to help you to feel at home。
as quickly as possible.。
Maybe you're visiting the city,。
maybe you're here for the summer.。
I'm not sure why you came in the summer,。
but you're here for the summer, praise the Lord.。
You like humidity, glad you're here.。
Maybe you're visiting friends and family,。
we're glad that you are a part of this as well.。
So welcome to The Vine.。
I'm really excited this morning。
because I've got a word in my spirit for us.。
This is a one-off word.。
Here at The Vine, we predominantly preach in series,。
whether that's a four-week series, an eight-week series,。
a 10-week series, but we normally have a book。
of the Bible we go through or a theme of the scripture。
that we wanna explore.。
But every once in a while between the series,。
we have these moments where we can have a one-off。
where I'm able to bring a word to you as a community。
that I've been sensing.。
And you have to pray for me to get through this one。
without crying.。
I'm feeling a little bit emotional。
as I come into the pulpit here this morning with you.。
Because this word is one that I feel like the Holy Spirit。
just has been working in my own life over many years.。
One that I desperately need to hear this morning.。
I feel like I'm gonna be preaching to myself.。
So I get a bit animated.。
It's because I need to really do some work in myself.。
Yeah, it's a word for us as a community.。
And I pray that it will be a word that will shape。
something fresh in you here this morning.。
And we wanna lean into ministry here at The Vine.。
And so after the word, we're gonna have a time。
for ministry together.。
I wanna preach to you from a passage from Matthew.。
Matthew chapter 11, one of Jesus' most beautiful promises.。
And I wanna read this to you from Matthew 11,。
verses 28 to 30.。
Jesus says this.。
He says, "Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened,。
and I will give you rest."。
It's not one of the most profoundly beautiful promises。
in scripture.。
He says, "Take my yoke upon you and learn from me,。
for I'm gentle and humble in heart,。
and you will find rest for your souls.。
For my yoke is easy and my burden is light."。
Fathers, we open up your scripture here this morning.。
I wanna pray that you would open us to you.。
Father, each one of us comes before you now。
with whatever weariness or burden we are feeling.。
And I know that for all of us.。
I know that for me.。
Lord, I know that for me.。
I am this way before you.。
Lord, we thank you for your promises in scripture。
that you meet us where we're at.。
And Father, this incredible promise。
that you will bring rest.。
Lord, we ask that you would speak to us from your word.。
We thank you for this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says.。
This is one of the most famous passages。
that Jesus has in scripture.。
It's one that you've probably heard many times,。
perhaps one that you've seen around the place.。
This is one that's been reproduced。
in lots of cheesy Christian ways as much as possible.。
Fridge magnets, bumper stickers, t-shirts,。
coffee mugs, you name it.。
You've probably seen this on Instagram。
in your feed at some point.。
In fact, I myself posted this to my feed during this week.。
We see this around a lot.。
It's a famous promise and passage of scripture from Jesus.。
And it's famous for a very important reason.。
It's famous for a very critical reason。
because Jesus here is speaking of a need。
that sits within every single human person.。
A need that is deep within us,。
a need that cries out for being met.。
It's a need that I think is even more prevalent now。
in the modern world than even perhaps that it was。
in the time when Jesus spoke it in the first century.。
And it's the need for rest.。
Oh man, rest.。
This need to find a place where we can go to deal。
with the fact that we are overwhelmed and stressed。
and exhausted almost all the time.。
I mean, I don't know about you,。
but this is a word, isn't it, for us?。
It's a word for any of us who knows what it is。
to feel stressed or burnt out or exhausted or overworked。
or that feeling inside of us to need to strive,。
to prove ourselves to others, to make other people love us,。
to show that we're successful or strong。
or whatever it might be.。
It's a word, isn't it, in season for any of us。
that have ever felt that way。
and probably for the majority of us in this room。
who feel that way right now.。
I think actually what Jesus probably should have done。
when he said this is just preface it with,。
and now a word for the people of Hong Kong.。
Come on, church.。
Like a now a word for people of this crazy city。
of the future where everybody's gonna be going。
and going and going.。
Everybody's gonna be trying to earn and create and produce,。
and they're gonna be overworked, overstimulated,。
overstressed, but the people of Hong Kong, come to me.。
All you who are weary and burdened,。
and I will give you rest.。
And we hear this word,。
and something inside of us cries out, doesn't it,。
and says, that's a word for me.。
Oh, yes and amen.。
Lord, give me more.。
The problem is, the problem is,。
is that what we think Jesus is speaking about here。
isn't actually what Jesus is speaking about.。
In fact, another way of saying it is,。
what we want Jesus to be speaking about here。
is not actually what Jesus is speaking about.。
What we hope Jesus is speaking about。
is not actually what he's speaking about.。
Because if you read this from a modern context,。
like we all so naturally do,。
open up Matthew 11, read this passage from the lens。
and the thought of our modern world.。
When we hear Jesus say, come to me,。
all you who are weary and burdened,。
and I will give you rest.。
Here's what we hear.。
We hear permanent vacation.。
We hear this excitement in our hearts。
'cause we hear, great, Jesus is inviting us。
to drinks on a beach in Bali.。
Like, that's what I need.。
'Cause Jesus knows that I'm overworked,。
overstimulated, overproducing.。
He knows that I'm striving so hard to do all these things.。
He knows that the one thing I need。
is just to get rid of it all,。
get it all out of my life,。
get myself to the point where I have no responsibilities,。
no work, no stress, no burden,。
and I can be come by ironing with Jesus forever.。
So we read this and he says rest,。
and we're thinking the cessation of everything,。
particularly the cessation of work,。
because work is what is exhausting me.。
Relationships are exhausting me.。
Trying to prove myself is exhausting me.。
I mean, if I can just get rid of all of that stuff,。
if I can cease my work。
and just take a permanent vacation with Jesus,。
let's get rid of Martha and let's be merry forever.。
Like, that's how we read this passage.。
And we get excited 'cause we think。
Jesus is inviting us to a holiday,。
but Jesus is doing everything but inviting you to a holiday.。
In fact, what Jesus is inviting us to。
is something so much grander, so much more beautiful,。
so much more profound,。
so much more life transforming。
than just a simple break from it all.。
And in fact, when you catch a glimpse,。
just a little glimpse of what it is。
that Jesus is inviting us to in this scripture,。
here's the reaction we find.。
We find ourselves no longer needing to escape the world,。
but desperately wanting to lean into the world.。
Come on, church.。
When we really understand what Jesus is asking here。
and offering here,。
we find ourselves being liberated, in fact,。
from the desire to wanna kind of get rid of the world。
and set the world aside and cease everything.。
And we actually find ourselves going, how do I do more?。
How do I lean in?。
How do I serve?。
How do I partner with God for the kingdom in this world?。
And we find ourselves going from a, I need a vacation。
to saying, Lord, give me life.。
Oh, I'm glad I'm the only one here。
who's excited this morning.。
Come on, church.。
'Cause you're not excited, and I get it,。
because we're tired.。
We're exhausted.。
And the idea of a break from it all。
sounds like what we need.。
And Jesus says, I'm not giving you rest from your work.。
I'm giving you rest for your soul.。
Oh, for the thing that really needs it.。
You gotta understand that when Jesus says these words,。
he's not actually speaking to the church in Hong Kong.。
He's not actually speaking to some future city。
that's gonna be stressed out and burnt out.。
He's speaking to a bunch of farmers in Galilee.。
He's speaking to a bunch of people。
who were just average, normal people.。
He's speaking to a bunch of people。
who are living in a time of empire,。
people who are under the oppression。
of a much larger, bigger power and force.。
He's speaking to Jewish people,。
to Jewish people who understood the Old Testament scriptures。
and the narrative of God, who, when they heard Jesus say rest,。
they're not thinking beach, barley, and a pina colada.。
They're thinking this could be the Messiah.。
They're thinking to themselves,。
we understand what the Bible has always been saying。
about this idea of one day God stepping back into the world。
and bringing life again to a weary and broken world.。
And here's one who's saying, come to me,。
and I will give you that kind of release,。
that kind of rest that isn't just gonna be sold。
by some physical ceasing of activity,。
but the sort of rest that is gonna magically。
transform your life forever.。
And they're thinking to themselves,。
could this one be actually the Son of God?。
So to understand what Jesus was meaning here by rest。
and how that will totally transform your thinking。
about your need for rest,。
we have to go all the way back。
to my favorite three chapters of the scripture.。
Does anybody know what my favorite。
three chapters of the scripture are?。
I know Tony does 'cause he's already laughing about it.。
Anyone else know my favorite three chapters of scripture?。
Genesis, which ones?。
One, two, three, amen, Jennifer, star.。
She's on staff, that doesn't count, but star.。
My favorite three chapters of scripture,。
Genesis one, two, and three,。
because within there we see God do so much。
to create what he wants in this world。
and the travesty of how sin breaks it。
and then the longing for it to be renewed.。
So if we wanna understand what Jesus is speaking about here。
when he's saying, I can give you rest for your soul,。
we gotta go all the way back to Genesis one and two.。
The beautiful thing about Genesis one and two。
is in there we see a picture of God's creation of the world,。
the way in which he creates and shapes the world.。
And we saw this quite a bit in our series on justice。
just this past month.。
But the pinnacle of that creation, of course,。
is the creation of humanity,。
this climactic work that he creates。
and he places us as his image.。
And notice what he does,。
he then places us within the garden。
and then he speaks powerfully two things.。
He speaks and demonstrates two things。
that are basically the two essential things。
that human beings need for flourishing.。
If you're taking notes, and you should be taking notes,。
and you can use your phone in here。
but not be on Instagram, YouTube or anything like that,。
but if you're taking notes, mark this down,。
I'm gonna now teach you the two essential things。
that every human being needs for flourishing.。
In Genesis one and two, the Lord creates this force.。
These are two rhythms that if you can get right in your life。
will cause you to flourish.。
The first is the rhythm of work。
and the second is the rhythm of rest.。
First, let's start with the idea of the rhythm of work.。
God creates humanity。
and he doesn't invite humanity into Bali on vacation.。
He creates humanity and he places humanity into a garden.。
And he says to humanity in that garden,。
he says, "Look around this creation I've created you,。
"you're made in my image.。
"Now I want you to partner with me, being image of me,。
"I want you to partner with me。
"in the kind of flourishing of creation that is around you."。
So it's an invitation to work,。
work in partnership with God。
so that we can take his creation。
and bring that creation into its greatest expression。
in the same way that when God created,。
the Holy Spirit took something that was formless,。
gave it form and brought it into its fullness.。
Now God takes humanity, places it in the garden。
and it says, "Do the same.。
"You're made in my image.。
"Now I want you to partner with me。
"in enabling creation to find its fullness。
"and its flourishing.。
"There's work for you to do."。
And that in those days was that work of planting,。
of preparing the soil, of watering, of growing,。
of reaping crop, of making the world produce its fruit.。
Adam and Eve are given work that not only flourishes them,。
but flourishes creation around them.。
And God steps back and says, "That's good."。
There's a rhythm of work that's important for us to know。
that was there before sin came to the picture.。
The second rhythm he creates is the rhythm of rest.。
Can I have an amen?。
It's not all work, you also get rest.。
And in creating this rhythm of rest,。
God does so by demonstrating and doing it in two ways.。
First of all, he does it through the order。
by which he creates.。
I wonder if you've ever recognized this,。
but in Genesis 1 and 2,。
when God gets to the end of his created day,。
he says this phrase, he says,。
"And then there was night and there was day the first day."。
Or it says, "And then there was evening and morning。
"the second day, evening and morning the third day."。
Which if you stop for a moment and read it,。
you would realize, isn't that around the wrong way?。
Like, shouldn't it be,。
"And then there was day and night the first day."。
But you gotta understand that when God creates,。
he creates a rhythm of rest where he says,。
"You wanna know how human beings flourish?。
"There was evening and there was morning the first day."。
In other words, this is how human beings flourish.。
They flourish working out of rest, not into rest.。
Oh, may that change your life.。
Because here's how we all work.。
We desperately work into rest, don't we?。
Like we work really hard, really hard, really hard,。
but it's okay because we booked that trip to Bali。
and we're gonna be on that beach。
and we're gonna drink that pina colada,。
but we're working, working, working, working, working。
so that we can get to our vacation, collapse on the beach。
and go, "Thank goodness I'm alive."。
We work into rest on a daily basis.。
You work really hard in your work。
and then you get home to watch Netflix.。
We work into rest,。
but God's created the world to work out of rest.。
He's like, "You wanna know what it is。
"to flourish as human beings?。
"Work out how rest becomes a propelling into what is good。
"rather than rest being where you go when you're exhausted."。
I learned this a few years ago because in my early years,。
I was a banker and I worked for an investment bank.。
I was pretty stressed when I was a banker。
working in investment banking,。
but I had never experienced stress。
until I'd become a pastor.。
You are all very stressful.。
So I became very stressed when I became a pastor.。
Over a few years, I recognized that I was having a big toll。
on my physical health.。
It was a big toll on my physical health。
because everything was beginning to work in my body。
and in my system in a bad way.。
I started getting irritable bowel syndrome.。
My stomach was really bad.。
And it got to the point where I had to go to a doctor.。
And I went to the doctor and I said to the doctor,。
"Look, I think I might have stomach cancer.。
"There's something going on.。
"I don't know what it is."。
And the doctor's like, "Well, let's do some tests."。
We did some tests.。
And I came back and he's like, "You're perfectly fine.。
"Physically, you're absolutely fine.。
"There's nothing in your stomach.。
"There's nothing there at all."。
So I'm like, "Well, doctor, what's going on?"。
He's like, "Well, tell me about your work week."。
So I told him, I'm like, "Well, I start work on Tuesdays。
"and I work Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday,。
"Friday, Saturday, Sunday.。
"And then Sunday's my busiest day.。
"And it's a crazy day.。
"And by the time I finish all the sermons。
"and all the services and everything,。
"I collapse into Monday.。
"Monday's my day off, praise the Lord."。
And he's like, "So you're telling me you work into rest?"。
He's like, "You should be working out of rest."。
I'm like, "What do you mean?"。
He's like, "Don't have a day off on Monday.。
"Have a day off on Friday."。
I'm like, "You don't understand.。
"I can't, like, the rhythm in our office,。
"we have days off on Monday.。
"We don't have..."。
He's like, "Who's the boss?"。
(congregation laughing)。
Jesus?。
I said, "Well, I'm kind of the boss."。
He's like, "Well, then change it."。
So I did, I changed my day off from Monday to Friday.。
And as soon as I changed my day off from Friday,。
what it means is now I work Sunday, Monday,。
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday is my day off.。
Saturday I work if I need to,。
if there's a wedding or whatever.。
And then I come in on Sunday.。
And you gotta believe it that I'm working now。
out of a place of rest.。
So when I come in on a Sunday, man, I'm fired up.。
I'm ready to go.。
Like, I'm so excited.。
And I know, I know that all of you are exhausted。
and you don't feel like I do and I get it.。
And you're gonna wanna go to work tomorrow。
and ask your boss for Friday off.。
It's not gonna work probably for you.。
But I want you to hear the scripture here.。
What God is saying is that there's an ordained rhythm。
in this world where if you can somehow change your attitude。
and your thinking, somehow change the rhythms of your work。
and begin to think I'm working out of a place of rest,。
not working into a place of rest,。
you will find the greatest flourishing。
that God has ever given you.。
Just a few months later, my stomach cleared up.。
No IBS, never had it ever since.。
I'm still as stressed as I ever was.。
But I'm working from a place of rest,。
not working into a place of rest.。
So that's the first thing that the Lord does.。
Here's the second thing he does.。
Right at the end on the seventh day,。
the Bible gives us this beautiful thing.。
It says, "And then he rested from all of his work."。
So on the seventh day, the Lord does nothing, if you will.。
He rests.。
Now the Hebrew word there for rest。
is actually the word for cease.。
So what he does here is he ceases from his work.。
Now, it's easy for us to project the idea of Sabbath。
into this moment, but we have to stop from doing that。
because Sabbath, this is the moment that drives the idea。
and the institution of Sabbath,。
which comes later in Exodus with the law that's given。
and the way that God works with the Jewish people。
in their freedom.。
And Sabbath gets instituted because of this moment.。
But what you've got to realize is that in this moment,。
God is not Sabbathing because he's exhausted.。
He didn't get to the end of those six days of creation。
and go, "Oh my goodness, I'm so tired, so weary, so burdened.。
I need to sit down for a moment。
and just breathe it all in," right?。
He gets to the end of his week, and here's the thing.。
He's not tired and exhausted so he needs rest.。
He ceases his work because nothing more needs to be done.。
In other words, the world is just。
as he always envisioned it to be.。
It's operating how he's always wanted it to be.。
Like a painter, think of it this way.。
Like a painter who's been spending months。
putting paint on a canvas and brushing brushstrokes,。
and then at the end of those months,。
finally puts the last brush on the painting。
and steps back and looks at the painting and goes,。
"Oh my goodness, it's done,"。
and then puts the paintbrush down.。
Not because they're tired and exhausted。
and it's all been bad,。
but because there's this glorious picture in front。
that is just how they always dreamed it to be。
and nothing more needs to be added.。
Are you with me?。
So the Lord rests, ceases,。
because everything is just as it is to be.。
This, my friends, is the idea of shalom.。
What we see actually at the end。
of the creation narrative of Genesis 1 and 2。
is not the institution of Sabbath.。
It is the exclamation of shalom.。
So when we go back to Matthew 11。
and Jesus says, "Come to me,。
"all you who are weary and burdened,。
"and I will give you rest,"。
Jesus is not speaking about Sabbath rest.。
He's not speaking in that passage about,。
"Man, I know you're tired, you just need a day off.。
"We're gonna give you a day off。
"and then we're gonna get back into it."。
He's actually not talking about Sabbath.。
Jesus speaks about Sabbath in lots of other places。
and He actually redeems and reconstructs what Sabbath is.。
He does that, but in this moment, it's not about Sabbath.。
This is about shalom.。
This is why He says, "It's a rest for your souls."。
In other words, what Jesus is doing。
is going right back to Genesis 1 and 2。
and He's seeing the picture of these rhythms。
that have been created for humanity to flourish,。
the rhythm of work and the rhythm of rest,。
and how we are to operate out of a place of rest。
into the world that He's created。
so that we can do the good works that He's placed upon us.。
And He sees a burnt out and exhausted group of people.。
And He says, "There is the rest。
"that Scripture has longed for,。
"that it spoke about in Genesis 1 and 2."。
He says, "If you come to me when you're weary and burdened,。
"I will give you shalom.。
"I will give you this kind of rest,。
"not just a break from your work。
"so that you can go back and be more stressed,。
"but actually a change within you。
"that will forever bring you into a place of peace."。
And He's like, "I want you to operate out of peace."。
But then Genesis 3 happens.。
Genesis 3 changes everything again,。
because there's Adam and Eve,。
and they take of that fruit。
from the knowledge of the tree of good and evil,。
and everything changes.。
Sin enters the situation,。
and those rhythms that were created。
for the flourishing of humanity,。
the rhythm of work and the rhythm of rest。
is totally changed in that moment.。
And those four relational contexts。
that we've been speaking about。
in this Justice series just recently,。
us with God, us with ourselves,。
us with others, us with creation,。
those four things are completely changed in that moment.。
All of them are disrupted and broken,。
and life is never the same again.。
And in this reality of sin,。
both the pleasure of work。
and the reality of rest are disrupted.。
Let me show you specifically。
how this happens from Genesis 3.。
I wanna show you verses just 19 to 20.。
He says this.。
He says, sorry, 17, we're gonna start in 17.。
He says, "Cursed is the ground because of you.。
"Through painful toil, you will eat of it。
"all the days of your life.。
"It will produce thorns and thistles for you,。
"and you will eat the plants of the field.。
"By the sweat of your brow, you will eat your food,。
"and you will return to the ground.。
"Since from it you are taken.。
"For dust you are, and to dust you will return."。
God shows up in the garden post-sin,。
and there's Adam and Eve,。
and they are broken in their relationship with him,。
in their relationship with themselves,。
their relationship with others,。
their relationship with creation.。
And in the disarray of all that sin,。
God shows up and says,。
you've gotta understand that there are consequences to that.。
You've gotta understand that now things。
are going to be differently.。
And he says, "The curse, the ground is now cursed,"。
notice, "because of you."。
And suddenly, where work was a rhythm。
designed for humanity to bring it into flourishing,。
now work is going to do these things.。
It's gonna be a toil of pain on you.。
There are gonna be thorns and thistles at work.。
It's gonna be the sweat of your brow.。
It's gonna be exhausting and tiring and bickering,。
and it's not gonna work out。
how you thought it was gonna work out.。
Sin has so broken it.。
And I want you to see something really important here.。
What God is saying is not that work is evil,。
but that we are evil.。
Not that work is sinful, but that we are sinful.。
And because we are sinful, suddenly everything has changed,。
and no longer what was supposed to bring us into flourishing。
now is gonna feel like it's sucking life from us.。
This is profound.。
Think about it in the four relational contexts。
that we've been speaking about.。
See, when our relationship with God breaks,。
here's what happens.。
We don't like that.。
We feel alone and we feel left behind,。
and here's what we do as human beings.。
When that relationship breaks,。
we try to become God ourselves.。
We take on board for ourselves the control of the world.。
Rather than leaving that to God,。
we begin to take it on ourselves.。
We say, "Well, I guess I need to provide for myself.。
"I need to work hard.。
"I need to provide for my family.。
"I need to be in control.。
"I need to make sure that everything is perfect,。
"just the way it should be."。
And we wonder why we're exhausted.。
And when our relationship with ourselves breaks。
because of sin, here's the reality.。
Suddenly the Bible has this kind of definition.。
It says that we suddenly get this orphan spirit in us.。
And the orphan spirit is because we feel like。
God has left us, so we feel like we are abandoned。
in this world, and because of that,。
we begin to do all that we can to plug the gap。
of that abandonment.。
So we try to prove ourselves.。
We try to show the world that we are deserving。
of being loved.。
We try to work hard so that people think,。
"Oh, we're successful."。
We wanna project an image,。
even though we know deep down inside we're still broken.。
The orphan spirit causes us to prove ourselves,。
and we're wondering why we're exhausted.。
And then when our relationship with others breaks down。
because we no longer have that relationship。
with God, we no longer have the security in ourselves,。
we start looking for security in the people around us.。
We overdate.。
We get into too many relationships.。
We're seeking for somebody to make us feel good,。
somebody to try to love us,。
somebody that we think that we can kind of。
be their best friend or be in relationship with them。
in a way that's gonna make us feel good。
about the brokenness in ourselves.。
And so we're using people to plug the hole in ourselves,。
and we wonder why we're exhausted.。
And then when our relationship with creation breaks down,。
two things will happen.。
Either we'll just not care about creation,。
we'll avoid it, we'll exploit it,。
we'll treat it how we want,。
and therefore in the long term we will suffer.。
Or we do the opposite.。
We worship creation.。
We look for creation as our salvation.。
We turn to creation as the place。
that's gonna redeem and renew us,。
and we begin to worship it through new age。
and the worship of mother nature。
and getting in touch with the spiritual essence。
of nature around us.。
And we think that that's where it's all gonna go,。
and we wonder why we're exhausted.。
This, my friends, is what I would call a striving mentality.。
And every single one of us,。
the reason why we are exhausted。
is not because you work hard, and I'm sure you do,。
and I'm sure hard work is tiring.。
The reason why you're really exhausted。
is because of your striving.。
You see, where we were once operating。
out of a place of rest into a place of thriving before sin,。
now we're operating out of a place of disorder。
into a place of striving because of sin.。
Are you with me?。
So before where we had this beautiful rhythm。
of work and rest and no sin to break it down,。
we felt fully alive,。
now we're trying to plug all the gaps ourselves.。
We're trying to reach out and find ways。
to feel better about our brokenness.。
We're trying to ensure that no one else around us。
sees what's truly going on inside,。
and we're in this place of doing all of that。
in our own strength,。
and it's because we are striving and driving。
to try to prove when actually that's just leading us。
into a place of greater and greater exhaustion.。
And when all of this sits together in one,。
we begin to understand why it is that Jesus says。
what He says to those people in Galilee。
back in the first century, all those years ago.。
You see, whenever we try to strive。
to restore what is broken inside of us because of our sin,。
and we look to any other source。
other than Jesus Himself to do that,。
you will only ever become more and more exhausted。
and less and less free.。
Come on church.。
That's the reality of what our world is like.。
That's the reality of all of our lives.。
If we try to plug and restore in any other source。
other than Jesus, we're only gonna get more exhausted.。
We're only gonna get more and more less free,。
more bound, more enslaved, more exploited,。
more tired, more exhausted.。
Our life is not gonna look how it was meant to be.。
And so Jesus shows up to these burnt out,。
exhausted, tired people in Galilee,。
and He says, "Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened.。
"I will give you rest."。
I wonder if that takes on now。
a slightly different perspective.。
Jesus is not offering a holiday to Bali。
as good as holidays to Bali are.。
He's offering something much more important,。
a freedom within yourself。
where you're operating out of rest, not into rest,。
where you found peace in a way that truly is transformative,。
where even your work begins to find fresh life.。
Notice what He says.。
He says, "Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened."。
The word weary here literally means。
to toil to a point of exhaustion,。
to try in our own strength to achieve.。
The word burden here means to carry a heavy weight upon us,。
to be overburdened by responsibilities and life.。
Jesus only uses these two words here in all of the Gospels.。
Never mentions these words ever again.。
It's just in this teaching。
'cause He's trying to touch that striving mentality。
that we all hold because of sin.。
And the reality that we're weighed down and burdened。
by the heaviness of life.。
And He says, "This is human experience,。
but it does not have to be.。
This is human experience weighed down by sin.。
But I have gone to the cross, I have raised again,。
I have liberated, I've set the world free.。
If you come to me, all you who are weary and burdened,。
I will give you that rest,。
a rest that will renew your spirit in your life。
so that you're not trying to escape the world。
because you're exhausted,。
you're leaning in because you're excited."。
I love how He says here, "Come to me."。
Simple.。
Jesus does not offer a 12-step plan。
to be able to manage the stress better in your life.。
He does not offer a strategy。
to help you to reduce your striving。
so that you can feel a little bit better.。
He's not trying to give you like a roadmap。
so that you can just get to your next vacation。
and feel a little bit better。
and then get back into the rat race.。
No, He's not doing that.。
Jesus does not want you to manage your striving.。
He wants you to eliminate striving.。
He wants you to be completely free。
from the thing that is weighing you down.。
So He says these beautiful words.。
He says, "Come to me."。
In other words, relationship with Him。
is what sets us free from that striving,。
recognizing that on the cross,。
He paid the price for the heaviness and the weight of sin,。
that in His resurrection,。
He offers grace and freedom from anyone。
who can turn towards Him.。
And He says to everybody, "Just come to me.。
I'm not hard to find," He's saying.。
You don't have to go on some big, long pilgrimage search.。
All you literally do is need to say,。
"Jesus, would you help me?"。
In other words, He's saying, "I'm available right here,。
right now, today, for whatever it is。
that is weighing you down, burdening you,。
strength, kind of that pressure upon you.。
I am here to set you free."。
Notice what He says.。
He says, "Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened."。
He didn't say, "Come to me。
when you're feeling better about yourself."。
He didn't say, "Come to me when everything's going right,。
when you've dealt with some stuff,。
when you've offloaded some of the weight,。
then come to me."。
No, He says, "Come to me just as you are right now."。
It's like Jesus is saying,。
"The only qualification you need。
to be in relationship with me is weariness and burden."。
And if you feel weary and burdened and exhausted and tired。
and overworked and overstimulated。
and feel like you're at the end of yourself,。
well, then you're primed for relationship with Jesus.。
The needier you are, the more perfect you are for Jesus.。
Come on, church.。
The needier you are, the more perfect you are for Jesus,。
for what He wants to do in your life.。
He says, "Come to me, all you who are weary。
and burdened right now, and I will give you rest."。
Not in the future,。
not in some kind of thing that's down the line,。
not after you've done a five-step program,。
not after you've done 12 Bible studies.。
I'm gonna give you rest right now.。
And that rest is gonna set you free.。
That rest is gonna change it all.。
And you might still need some physical break。
from time to time,。
but when you get the kind of rest I'm talking about,。
the kind of rest that goes into your soul,。
your primary purpose in life is not to work, to rest.。
Your primary purpose in life is to rest, to work.。
Come on, church.。
And what kind of work?。
The Sermon on the Mount, the Great Commission.。
And yes, being a banker and a lawyer and a teacher。
and a graphic designer and a nurse and a doctor。
and whatever it is that you might be in this room,。
all of that work has value.。
All of that work can produce the world。
to be a flourishing place,。
like the rhythm that it was created to be。
in Genesis 1 and 2.。
But the only way you get there is through Jesus Christ.。
Otherwise, you are stuck in your striving,。
in your sin, in your brokenness,。
in that orphan spirit trying to get everybody to like you.。
There is nothing more exhausting。
than trying to get people to like you。
because you don't really probably at times are easy to like.。
But guess what?。
Jesus likes you, loves you,。
loves you just the way you are right now.。
Doesn't love the brokenness or the sin that's in our lives,。
but loves you and sees you free。
and says, "All you have to do is come to me."。
He then says this word, he says,。
and this is quite funny.。
He says, "Take my yoke upon you and learn from me,。
"for I'm gentle and humble in heart,。
"and you will find rest for your souls,。
"for my yoke is easy and my burden is light."。
I love this.。
He says, "Take my yoke upon you,"。
which is really bizarre, so counterintuitive.。
It seems actually counterproductive。
'cause Jesus has said, "Come to me and I will give you rest."。
And now he said, "Take my yoke."。
It's like, hang on, Jesus, what is it?。
Is it rest or work?。
Is it rest or freedom or rest?。
You can't tell me you're gonna give me rest。
and then tell me that I'm gonna be yoked again.。
But you have to understand what Jesus is saying here.。
He's saying, "You've gotta understand。
"that when you're yoked to something,。
"it's gonna burn you out。
"unless the thing that you are yoked to is my yoke,。
"me, myself."。
If you don't know what a yoke is,。
a yoke was in the first century。
and is still used in farming rural communities today.。
It is a wooden beam that goes across two animals,。
usually two oxen.。
And the wooden beam goes across them like this.。
And there's like a little hoop here。
and a little hoop there.。
And the neck of the oxen's go through the hoop.。
And usually two oxen will be used to like plow a field。
or to carry a cart to market with the produce to market,。
whatever it might be.。
Now, interestingly, notice this,。
those yokes were made of wood.。
Guess who made the yokes in the first century?。
It was the carpenters.。
Should be making connections and dots there, guys.。
(audience laughing)。
Jesus did not make rocking chairs。
for grannies on the balcony, okay?。
Jesus made farming equipment.。
That's what a carpenter in Galilee。
and around that area in the first century,。
they made farming equipment.。
So no doubt, Jesus had made a bunch of these yokes。
over his career as a carpenter.。
So he says to the people who are farmers,。
he says, "It's like this yoke."。
Now, here's the interesting thing.。
Farmers would know this, but we don't。
because we live in modern Hong Kong.。
But in the first century, farmers understood。
that when you had a yoke, there were two animals。
that were yoked to it.。
There was one animal who was a big, strong ox,。
and then there was another ox who was slightly less strong.。
Now, the reason why a farmer would bring。
two animals like that together,。
a strong one and a slightly less strong,。
is 'cause the farmer is working for the long-term.。
And he wants to train up the slightly less strong oxen。
to one day go and be the strong oxen。
for another less strong oxen.。
If they took two strong oxen together all the time,。
there's no passing or learning on that process.。
So when you yoked animals,。
you took a strong one on the right side,。
a less strong one on the left side.。
The one on the right side had a noose in the yoke。
that was very tight,。
which meant that he would carry more of the weight.。
The one on the other side, the noose was looser,。
meaning that they didn't carry as much weight,。
but still carried some weight.。
And so Jesus is saying, "Take my yoke upon you."。
What he's saying is, "I'm on the right side。
"here, it's my yoke, you're sharing it with me.。
"It's tight around me because I can take on board。
"all of the weight.。
"You though, still have some weight to carry.。
"You still have a partnership here.。
"You're still a part of it, but don't worry.。
"I'm gonna carry the majority of your weight,。
"but there's still a weight that'll be upon you.。
"But don't freak out, I'm right alongside you.。
"We're doing this together.。
"It's a partnership towards what I wanna see。
"you flourishing in this world."。
That should remind you of Genesis 1 and 2,。
when God creates the world,。
he creates us in partnership with him。
so that we bring the world into flourishing.。
Then Jesus says to these people in Galilee,。
"Come to me, all you who are in burden,。
"and I will give you rest.。
"Here's how I will give you rest.。
"I will carry some of your load.。
"I will carry the heavy weight.。
"I will carry the majority of the stress.。
"I will stand beside you, walk alongside you.。
"I will fight battles for you that you didn't even know.。
"But you gotta recognise that we are。
"in partnership together.。
"There's still work to be done.。
"There's still joy ahead,。
"but you're gonna partner with me。
"and I'm gonna carry the heavy load.。
"You're gonna carry the light load,。
"but we are working in partnership together."。
This is why Jesus says, "Learn from me."。
He says, "Take my yoke and learn from me.。
"You're an apprentice with me.。
"You're the lighter oxen, if you will.。
"One day, you're gonna carry the heavier load.。
"One day, you're gonna grow to become。
"more and more like Christ Jesus,。
"attained to the whole measure。
"of the wholeness of Christ,。
"as it says in Ephesians 4."。
But he's saying, "Right now, be yoked to me.。
"I've got you.。
"I'm walking with you.。
"I'm beside you."。
Which is a truly liberating thought。
that we can be yoked to him。
and find ourselves in a place。
where that partnership is renewed,。
where sin put us in a place of striving.。
Jesus now puts us in a place again of thriving,。
not by the cessation of work,。
but by the re-understanding and the renewal of it.。
You see, before, when it was all about sin,。
our rest was hard for us.。
We wanted it physically.。
But what Jesus offers us is something far more profound,。
the rest within us, within our soul,。
that changes everything.。
This is biblical rest,。
not this kind of invitation to the cessation of work。
because we're exhausted from our striving,。
but the invitation to the renewal of work。
because we have eliminated our striving.。
Isn't that beautiful?。
Isn't that such a wonderful way。
to think about what Jesus is offering here?。
So when he says to them,。
"My yoke is easy and my burden is light."。
The word for easy there means to be well-fitted to you,。
well-structured just for you.。
He's like, "This is the way it was made for you."。
I want you to see something really important.。
What Jesus is essentially teaching is this.。
There is no such thing as a yokeless life.。
And I think that's so important.。
That's gonna revolutionize some of your thinking here.。
There is no such thing as a yokeless life,。
a life where you don't have any responsibilities,。
a life where it is a permanent vacation,。
a life where you're just chilling with Jesus all the time.。
No, actually, you've been saved and redeemed and created。
because God's got purpose for you.。
The Sermon on the Mount, the Great Commission,。
he wants you to roll up your sleeves.。
There's a gospel to take to the world.。
There's justice to be seen around us.。
Now, if we try to do all those things in our own strength,。
apart from Jesus, we will be striving and exhausted。
and desperately need rest.。
But when we do those, yoke to Jesus,。
where he carries the heavier load,。
we find ourselves fully becoming the people。
we were created to be.。
And God steps back and says, "That's not Sabbath,。
that's Shalom.。
Oh, come to me, all you who are weary and burdened,。
because I haven't just got a Sabbath,。
a one day where you can recover。
as much as that's needed and Sabbath is good.。
I've got Shalom, a eternity by which you're redefined."。
There's no such thing as a yokeless life.。
If you're in this room today, like I am,。
and you're feeling exhausted, burnt out, tired,。
overwhelmed, overstimulated,。
desperately in need of a vacation,。
you have to ask yourself,。
what is it that you are yoke to?。
Because you're not yoke to Jesus.。
That's a strong word, but I'm just saying it straight up.。
And this is the great question this passage asks us,。
what is it that I am currently yoke to?。
And you have to realize that sometimes you can be yoke。
to what looks on the surface like good things,。
but they're not Jesus.。
And no matter even if you're yoke to good things,。
if they're not Jesus,。
you are only eventually gonna get exhausted。
and weighed down once again.。
Some of you in this room, you're yoke to the vine.。
That's not good, we're not Jesus.。
Some of you in this room, you're yoke to a relationship.。
That's not good, that person is not Jesus.。
Some of you who are yoke to work, yoke to success,。
yoke to making a name for yourself,。
that's not good because that's not Jesus.。
And it's not that we don't want you to love your church,。
we want you to love your church.。
It's not that we don't want you。
to have great relationships in your life.。
Of course we want you to.。
It's not that you can't have a great job。
and work hard and get promoted and earn a lot of money.。
That's absolutely fine.。
But when those things become the thing that you're yoke to,。
you will live a life of exhaustion and burnout and tiredness。
and you will not be working with Jesus。
for the renewable things.。
The only way we change the rat race,。
the only way we get off the spinning wheel。
is we recognize that Jesus says,。
"Come to me, all you who are worried and burdened,。
"and I will give you rest."。
I'm the only one that can give you rest.。
For my heart is gentle, my heart is humble,。
and the rest that I give you。
is not a pina colada on the beach in Bali,。
it literally is a rest for your soul.。
And when you receive that rest,。
you don't wanna check out of the world,。
you want to lean in.。
My prayer for you is that that's where you will be.。
And if you're anything like me。
and you know what it is to be exhausted and burdened。
and weary and stressed, you're in a great place。
because you are qualified then for a relationship with Jesus.。
The one thing that will truly give you rest, amen?。
Would you stand with me?。
And I would love to pray for us.。
Father, we are just so grateful。
for your presence here in this room.。
Grateful for the fact that you are with us, close to us.。
Grateful that for those of us who are weary and burdened,。
the kind of rest that we really need is found in you.。
I wonder if this is important for you here this morning,。
if you're feeling this and if this is speaking to you,。
if you know what it is to be weary and burdened。
in this moment, I wonder whether you just open。
your hands before you.。
(gentle music)。
The Holy Spirit would say a challenging thing to you。
as your hands are open.。
First of all, you would say, I love you, I've got you.。
I can break the back of striving。
and that weary and burden that you feel right now,。
I can lift it off you in the name of Jesus.。
I'm the strong oxen that is by your side,。
carrying the heavy load.。
Maybe the starting point for some of you here this morning。
is just, Lord, would you come?。
I can't take it anymore.。
Just take a moment for some of you in this room,。
watching online in the overflow,。
Lord, I just, I can't take it anymore.。
I'm exhausted, burnt out.。
I'm codependent on relationships I shouldn't be.。
I'm looking for salvation in all the wrong places.。
I'm just tired 'cause of my boss.。
Could be for many reasons, but you're standing here。
and you're like, Lord, would you come?。
I can't do this, I need you.。
I need you to lift.。
I need you to lift it off of me in Jesus' name, lift it off.。
Father, I pray for my brothers and sisters here.。
Lord, my heart goes out to each one.。
Lord, would you lift off of their shoulders right now。
in the name of Jesus?。
The heaviness that striving has placed upon them.。
The heaviness that sin has placed upon us.。
The sin that we've chosen ourselves.。
The sin that others have done that has impacted us.。
Lord, would you liberate us?。
Lord, we come to you.。
And maybe for you, if this is resonating,。
that's a prayer just to pray right now.。
Lord, I come to you, I come to you.。
I can't take it anymore.。
I need you, I gotta have you step in。
and take this from me.。
And then the next thing I want you to do。
as you're in this place of prayer。
is just ask the Holy Spirit to show you。
what it is that you're currently yoked to.。
And you know that thing, it's gonna resonate in your spirit。
as soon as the Lord shows it to you.。
And you're gonna be like,。
I have an unhealthy attachment to success,。
an unhealthy attachment to this woman or this man,。
an unhealthy attachment to this website,。
an unhealthy attachment to whatever it might be。
in your life.。
And you know you're yoked to that thing.。
And as long as you remain yoked to that thing,。
you will feel the weight of it。
'cause it is not designed to carry the weight like Jesus is.。
(gentle music)。
And as the Holy Spirit shows you。
what it is that you are yoked to,。
this is where we allow the ministry of the Spirit to come,。
to liberate His people and His church。
from the weary and the burdens that we carry,。
to recognize that we're not given by Jesus。
a responsibility-free life or a perfect life。
that's never gonna be stressful,。
but to realize that we are never gonna go。
through that stress alone,。
that if we are yoked to Him,。
if our relationship is rooted in Him,。
if we are finding Him as our greatest joy。
and our greatest strength,。
even when we go through the valley of the shadow of death,。
it will not overcome us,。
for He will be right there with us.。
I wonder if we could just invite the prayer team to come.。
And I wonder whether we could just do this right now.。
You know, normally you do this at the end of the service,。
but I just feel like the Holy Spirit。
wants us to minister.。
And I know that some of you may need to go in a moment.。
We'll dismiss you in a moment,。
but this is a ministry time.。
This is where the Holy Spirit,。
if this is speaking to you today,。
don't leave here without the opportunity。
to do some business with Jesus.。
And so we have a prayer team already here at the front.。
So I wanna invite you just to come and receive prayer.。
If you know you need prayer today, don't wait.。
Just come forward now and just come to our prayer team.。
And we will stay as long as it takes。
to pray for everybody that needs prayer.。
We wanna lay our hands on you.。
We wanna speak life over you.。
We wanna release the burdens that you're carrying.。
We wanna stand beside you.。
We wanna reignite rest,。
bring you back to the way。
that you were originally created to be.。
So come on church, I'm serious.。
If you'd like prayer, come forward.。
Come on.。
That's right, just start coming forward.。
We're gonna pray for you all.。
You can just come and stand with one of our prayer team.。
They're gonna pray with you.。
Anyone else want prayer?。
If we could have some extra people on the prayer team,。
that would also be helpful.。
Alana, would you mind praying for people?。
Anyone else?。
Come on.。
In the upper house, you guys can come down as well.。
If you're in the overflow,。
you can come out and pray as well.。
We wanna pray for every single person.。
That's great.。
Brilliant.。
All right, we need more people to pray.。
Is anybody willing to pray?。
Somebody?。
Sean, come on buddy.。
Yeah, mate, thanks.。
If you're willing to pray for people,。
would you come forward as well?。
If you're willing to pray for people,。
just put your hand up as you come forward。
and we're gonna make sure that everybody's,。
you're willing to pray for someone?。
You're willing to pray for someone?。
All right, keep coming forward guys.。
Sean, would you start praying?。
Yeah, great.。
You wanna pray?。
Okay, you can pray for this guy.。
Anyone else like prayer?。
Thanks, Nathan.。
If our elders are here,。
anybody from our staff, prayer team.。
And maybe if you're still here,。
you can just stretch out your hands。
or just begin to pray for yourself.。
You can even pray for people around you.。
We're just gonna take a moment to really do this together.。
Okay, we need some more prayers.。
Yeah, okay.。
Can you come?。
There's a lady just over here who's gonna pray for you.。
Awesome.。
Okay.。
All right, there's a lot of people here in this line。
that wanna get prayed for.。
So we're gonna pray for them.。
If you need to go, we wanna bless you to go.。
But can I ask, just say something.。
Can you just go as quietly as you can if you need to go?。
I hope this has been helpful for you.。
I'm sure the Lord also spoke to you.。
So you can go into the week,。
think about what it is to operate out of a place of rest.。
Think about what it is that you've been yoked to.。
The Lord is gonna continue to set you free.。
If you wanna remain, remain.。
We will pray for you.。
If you wanna help pray for people,。
please remain and pray for people.。
We're gonna do this together, amen?。
God bless everyone.。
We'll see you guys next week.。
Thank you.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
