Well, it's good to see you all and to be back. I am excited about Christmas。
I'm excited about introducing Christmas traditions to my baby girl Ellie。
In Germany, they have a tradition。
It's a Christmas calendar, but it's not the chocolate calendar。
It's like it's a calendar that has big pockets and every day. There's actually quite a significant gift in there。
So so I'm ready, you know, I'm that's my one decoration。
But。
But hey, hey, it's good to see you。
Now when I was in university and I feel like I've been talking about university a lot. So it's like far far in the past。
I。
Did what university students do I studied I played basketball and I hung out with my friends。
Now there was one semester or one season。
Where I really studied a lot。
Like all the time and my friends they went on these exciting road trips event of Vancouver。
You know Canada on a road trip。
Need all sorts of stuff, but I didn't go because I needed a study or I felt like I needed to study。
And so I missed out on on all these fun trips. I missed out on hanging out with my friends and when I look back。
at that time I。
Actually think that I chose the wrong thing。
Because I。
Should have spent time with my friends instead of studying now. I know I'm in Hong Kong. I。
am aware there's a lot of you know parents from Hong Kong here and。
I did。
I I do believe studying is important. I did study。
You know, I was a good student. So I actually got good grades, but what I'm actually talking about is I studied excessively。
Because there was a fear inside of me somehow that I needed to do more。
You know order to do well and it actually kept me from really enjoying my friendships。
And it kept me from having better relationships my friends。
Now luckily, I didn't do that throughout all University, but I did it for a part of my studies。
But isn't that interesting how we can invest ourselves in the things that we think are so important at。
That moment in our lives, you know take all the time we take all the energy。
maybe even a lot of resources and。
Then when we look back at those things。
We realized that they really did not matter that much or that they're really not that important。
So。
For me it was。
Studying excessively didn't improve my grades。
Lower the quality of my friendships. I mean that was basically it。
For a lot of us, I believe it's you know working excessively。
Right. There's this saying I used to put as a screensaver on my phone that says nobody。
ever。
Regrets spending what wait, how does it go?。
Let me get this right。
Nobody。
Well, let me just I'm not gonna I'm not gonna remember this basically it's the moral of the story。
How about that the moral of the story is this that?。
We add on our when we're at the end of our lives. We never wish that we would have spent more time at the office。
Finally landed there right took me a while, but I brought I made it. Yes。
Got a little confused there in my brain and。
And and the thing is what you know, why do we work so much?。
Is it sometimes maybe it's the police someone sometimes it's because we want, you know。
promotion where we're chasing after。
You know better better income for a family and and up to certain degrees that you know that that can be okay。
But there is also like an excessiveness, you know to that a lot of times in us。
Other ways that we might invest ourselves and things。
Maybe there's some relationships that are not that important. But for some reason they absorb all our time and our energy and so we give。
People all our time and energy instead of the ones that we should give it to。
Now, I don't know what you're you know, investing yourself and what you're spending your time on what you're using your energy for。
But what I want to explore with you today is how can we make investments that。
Truly matter, you know, how can we how can we focus on?。
Using our energy our resources our time and put it in the place。
That actually is really important so that when we look back we don't have to say. Oh my gosh. What did I do?。
I miss out on all these fun road trips。
You know and we have to be bummed that's quite you know, I can get over that one。
But there's other things, you know where there can be great regrets and we can miss out greatly。
on of course also especially what actually God has for us and。
So we're continuing our sermon series living the kingdom parables。
We've been looking every week at one of the parables of Jesus。
Part of it what we're looking to do is to be challenged by them, you know for Jesus to challenge us。
in our attitudes and our thinking and。
So that we can respond and align ourselves, you know to his kingdom values and we can shift our perspective。
It can live differently in light of you know。
Jesus teaching and。
So I want to encourage us as we go no more into the message to actually to open your heart and say Lord。
I want to be challenged by you. I want to hear from you what you have to say to me and。
So actually let me pray for us. Let me pray pray over us。
Heavenly Father we。
We are here because we want to hear from you。
We desperately need to hear from you。
We want to have you speak into our lives and say yes to what you have for us because what you have is always the best。
So will you prepare our hearts now to receive?。
What you have I praise in your name Jesus. Amen。
So we're in the gospel of Luke and I just want to set the context before we go into a specific parable so there is。
The context is it actually says there's a thousands of people。
Around Jesus and。
Jesus is teaching his disciples. So it's kind of like he's teaching his disciples and everybody else is listening to him teaching his disciples。
and。
The topic that he's teaching on is actually on obstacles to discipleship。
like things that keep you from following Jesus that can derail your in your journey of being a Christian and。
the thing that that Jesus talks right before we get to the text that we're gonna look at is。
he talks about fearing God about fearing man and he。
Talks about being faithful to him even in persecution。
you know, even when we face persecution that we are faithful to Jesus and。
So then he moves to the next obstacle and that's where we're gonna pick up. So we're in Luke chapter 12 starting in verse 13。
It says this。
Someone in the crowd said to him teacher tell my brother divide inheritance with me。
Jesus replied man who appointed me judge or an arbiter between you。
Then he said to them watch out。
Be on your guard against all kinds of greed。
Life does not consist in abundance of possessions。
So we're gonna walk through this piece by piece. So I'm not reading everything to you right now。
But here's a man. Maybe he interrupts Jesus。
Maybe just sees the moment when Jesus quiet for one second。
He jumps in and he brings a request to Jesus and he asked Jesus to make a ruling over。
Inheritance, I guess fight or conflict that him and his brother are having。
Now, why does he come to Jesus with that?。
Well, if you know, he addresses Jesus as a teacher。
so。
People around Jesus they saw him as a teacher with authority a teacher also of the law a rabbi and。
At that time, you know all the rules regarding even inheritance. They were in the Torah. They were in the。
first five books of you know, the Bible of the Hebrew Scripture and。
So a lot of times rabbis and teachers they made actually rulings。
You know, they made judgments and then made decisions help the community sort out things。
Might that might be a little bit like a pastor, you know helping。
two conflicting parties settle an issue。
and。
What's interesting though is the man that approaches Jesus if we pay close close attention。
He actually doesn't。
Ask Jesus to mediate。
He wants Jesus to do what's on his agenda. He wants him to make a ruling that。
Inheritance is divided, you know, so he comes to Jesus. He wants Jesus to fill his plans his purposes。
He is actually not interested in anything else。
he just wants Jesus do what he wants him to do and。
What。
one thing with with that is。
You know。
That he's not interested in restoring his relationship with his brother. He just wants to get his he wants to get his inheritance。
He wants to get what he thinks is owed to him and there is no room for another perspective. He。
He just wants Jesus do what he wants from you and Jesus, you know being wise being discerning。
You know, he decides not to do a ruling not to do a judging but an instead。
He actually turns around and he starts teaching everyone。
So not just the man we asked some question not just the disciples, but he's speaking to the whole crowd。
and。
What he what he says to them is。
We find in verse 15。
He says watch out be on your guard against all kinds of greed life does not consist in abundance of possessions。
I'll just imagine yourself you bring an issue to Jesus and。
Then Jesus uses that as a springboard and starts teaching everyone around you and he kind of implies。
You know that your requests involved some greed。
Make makes us feel a little uncomfortable, right?。
And but but why does Jesus bring it to everyone。
Because greed it's a human issue. It's actually something that not just this man needs to hear about。
It's something that everyone needs to hear about because we all to one degree or another。
have heart issues, you know when it comes to possessions and money and。
Inheritance and all those things and so Jesus addresses everyone。
Now it's at this point in time. It's also important to remember when Jesus addresses something like that。
He never does it, you know to shame or to put down。
He does it because he wants to bring life. He wants to bring wholeness to an area in our lives that is broken。
And he wants to do something new. He wants to do something better. And。
So we just need to keep that in mind as we walk through the story。
So Jesus starts warning us against greed and actually false narratives that we believe。
He says in verse 15 life does not consist in abundance of possessions。
But we actually believe that it does right we actually believe that life or abundant life。
Exists in abundance of possession。
And so he's starting to dress this the slightest。
Narrative that we hold that if I only have this much money if I only have this house or this whatever。
You know, then I will be okay, then I will live the good life。
But Jesus, you know is saying that's not true。
You know abundant life does not consist in these things。
Well, let's continue in the story。
verse 16。
And he told him this parable the ground of a certain rich man yielded an abundant harvest。
He thought to himself. What shall I do? I have no place to store my crops。
Then he said this is what I will do。
I will tear it on my barns and build bigger ones and there I will store my surplus grain。
And I'll say to myself you have plenty of grain。
Laid up for many years take life easy eat drink and be married。
now。
In this parable, you know, there's a rich man. We're not told why he's rich。
There's no hint that he did anything unethical。
You know, he didn't somehow do some shady dirty deals and screw somebody over。
but we're just told he's wealthy and。
then。
There's another thing that happens. There's an abundant harvest on top of being already rich。
His ground, you know from whatever land he owned is yielding just an absolutely incredible。
Harvest much more than expected or would be usual。
So he's already he's rich and now he gets this。
extra stuff on top of it and。
This creates a challenge for him, you know, what what is he going to do with it?。
And it's interesting because we're actually let in on this inner dialogue in the parable where we can hear his thoughts。
It's kind of scary, right?。
If we could hear each other's thoughts。
But we get to hear his thoughts。
So good. It's that way around out the other way around。
and and we get to listen into his own inner inner dialogue and so he is like。
Oh, what am I gonna do? You know with all this extra crop because there's a problem. His barns are full. It's plural。
Yes, you know multiple barns. He doesn't have one. He has multiple ones. And so he comes up with solution。
I'm gonna tear them down. I'm gonna be bigger once I'm gonna store it up and then he concludes the whole thing was saying。
That you know and when that's done he can enjoy his life and leisure and eat drink and be merry。
That's his plan. You know, that's his conversation and。
From from our perspective if we would not know that Jesus beforehand talks about greed if we just would hear the story in a different context。
We actually would be quite impressed with this man. Wow, you know, here's somebody who can scale a business。
Here's somebody who can be prudent and and build wealth。
if there was a YouTube video or something like wow, you know skies like。
He made it from like not having as much and he built his business empire, you know, that's impressive。
Now because this is in the context of Jesus teaching and we know what comes before we know there are some issue。
But what what what is it, you know, what what is the issue that Jesus is addressing here。
Well, if you pay close attention to the inner dialogue, we start getting a hint at what the problem is and it actually reveals to us。
You know some of the values and some of the motivations that this man is holding in his heart。
So if you notice there's all these I and my statements。
You know, it's all about him it's all about what he has done it's all his。
It's like my crops my abounds my surplus myself。
Actually a word transit here's myself is my soul。
You know, it's all my my my I I I。
There is no thought of every anyone else and there is no thought of God。
You know, there's an absence of acknowledgement of God。
So this goes in contrast, you know to what Psalm 24 one says says the earth is the Lord's and everything in it。
the world and all who live in it, which means that actually。
You know God has created everything and all that we have including our life our breath our health。
Whatever possessions we have everything is a gift from God。
Every single thing now we a lot of times think we did it ourselves。
You know, but everything we have is a gift from God and this man, you know, there is no God in his equation。
I mean he thinks it's it's all it's all him。
So and this is where the twist comes into the parable。
verse 20。
But God said to him you fool。
This very night your life will be demanded from you. Then who will get what you have prepared for yourself?。
This is how it will be with whoever stores up things for themselves, but is not rich towards God。
So while most of us, you know when you look at。
This story what made me think Wow a prudent successful。
Businessman who knows how to scale a business and accumulate wealth and do something good。
God calls him a fool。
You fool. It's quite a different verdict than we would expect, right?。
It's also quite strong language right to be called a fool。
So why why does God call this man a fool。
Well, God calls this man a fool because all of his investments all of his wealth is directed towards himself。
It's all for himself。
There's no thought of neighbor。
You know there it's it's all about himself。
and。
He just cares about himself. He just invests the money on himself. He doesn't think of anyone else。
There's no acknowledgement of God。
There is。
He actually sees this money as a security。
You know that。
You can see that in his plans, right? He has a plans that like I will live the abundant life。
I'm going to you know, eat drink be merry enjoy my wealth。
So he actually placed his faith in his possessions。
But he lacks faith in God。
And he thinks that his possessions were given the security of his anxious heart。
That the possessions will make sure that he's gonna be okay。
But when it comes to the end of his life。
they actually don't deliver and。
The lie is exposed。
That so many of us that we actually kind of believe right if we're honest。
And then in verse 20 we find out that God tells him, you know this very night your life will be demanded of you。
and it's actually interesting because a little literal Greek says your soul, you know before he says my soul and。
Then now he says that even our life, you know something that we steward。
And it will be demanded of you and then he asked a question and who will get what you have prepared for yourself。
Who's gonna have your stuff。
And at this time。
It just shows the emptiness。
the spiritual bankruptcy with which he stands before God, you know because。
That's not his question anymore。
He has different concerns on at this point。
and。
Then Jesus concludes by saying, you know gives like a wisdom saying he says is this is how it will be with whoever stores up。
Things for themselves, but is not rich towards God. And so there's a contrast。
there's like storing up things towards yourself versus being rich towards God and。
he's。
He's saying, you know。
that's a consequence when we're just all about ourselves when you try to find a security and possessions and wealth when we。
Maybe try to find power significance influence。
We know whatever it is for people money means different things for people or possessions mean different things for people。
And whatever is that we're trying to find in that it does not deliver if it's just direct towards herself。
So Jesus then concludes that you know。
This man made a disastrous investment and actually kind of ends open-ended because we don't know what he does。
we don't know what he says now suddenly we don't hear his inner dialogue anymore and。
Actually is meant for ourselves to think about you know, what's inside of our what's our inner dialogue?。
You know, what are we saying to ourselves?。
And so while the man the parable didn't acknowledge God at all。
Many of us here we actually do not all of us, but many of us you do。
But nonetheless, we're not immune to the chasing after riches and trying to secure a future。
through the accumulation of wealth。
We we also believe that false narrative even as Christians。
Right that possessions they're gonna solve our problems. They're gonna give us security so we can finally rest not be anxious。
Possessions are gonna give us significance people gonna listen to me. I'm gonna have influence。
Possessions are gonna give us power so I can have an impact, you know, what whatever it is and。
And we we believe that and they do to a certain degree。
But in the end they never fully deliver and contrary to what Jesus says that life does not consist of abundance of possession。
We think it does。
You know, we actually believe that it does if you picture an abundant life what you picture。
Exactly right and I have to be honest I picture the same thing。
But what Jesus is trying to bring a corrective, you know to us。
So money and possessions that their idols, you know, the idols of a heart and Tim Keller who's a was a well-known pastor in the US。
He defines an idol this way an idol is anything more important to you than God。
Anything that absorbs your heart and imagination more than God。
Anything you seek to give you what only God can give。
and。
So in the in the parable, we see that this rich man. He is daydreaming。
You know his imagination is stirred by his possessions and by his wealth。
And he dreams of how this will give him security. How does will give him a relaxing retirement?。
And。
But but it reveals, you know that that's his idol。
That's what he puts his faith really in and I think with us we've been talking about there's a lot of theoretical in our Christian。
Faith we theoretically, you know believe that。
Abundant life isn't God, but if we actually look at our life practice we see a lot of times。
That we actually place our faith and other things。
We actually place our faith and you know in our in our jobs or in in our bank account or whatever it is。
Or your house that you own or working towards owning or whatever。
And the man that came to Jesus, you know with a request about his inheritance。
and he also thought that the inheritance is gonna deliver for him something, you know, whether it's that security again and。
We all heard or maybe even experienced personally yourself like just horror stories of inheritance。
You know where there's horrible fighting where relationships fall apart。
We're just brokenness and just destroys and devastates families。
And again, it just shows that we hold this idol in the heart。
You know that we think this inheritance is gonna do something and we don't care about the religion。
We just gonna we just want to get ours what we think is ours. It doesn't matter if the relationship is destroyed。
You know and it's devastating。
Now what's interesting when when we think about greed or a lot of times you don't think of ourselves。
Like I've heard several pastors say nobody ever comes to me and confesses that they're greedy。
You know, they can。
People share all sorts of things。
You know sexual brokenness。
affairs。
You know broken relationships. Well, whatever, you know like。
Having cheated someone what whatever it may be。
But what this shows is that most of us actually don't think of ourselves as greedy。
We don't think it's our issue. We think it's the other person's issue and we can always find someone that we can point to you。
right。
Can always find someone else where you can say? Oh, yeah, it's their issue, but it's not my issue。
But here Jesus he's he's exposing these inner dialogues and things in our hearts。
He's actually but actually is all of our issue。
You know and Jesus is calling us。
To bring this issue to him。
So that we can overcome this issue。
By the power, you know of Jesus in our lives and that we can live lives that are rich towards God。
not just rich towards ourselves。
now I。
Had a financial。
transaction that I was trying to or like a business thing that I was trying to do and。
It fell through in the last moment。
And I was so angry。
I'm a very relaxed person. I know a lot of you don't know me that well。
I'm a very relaxed person. I don't get very angry most of the time and。
But I was super angry and then as I suddenly realized my strong emotions, I was like, whoa。
What's going on here? Why am I so upset?。
and。
The truth is you know, because I placed hope in this investment that it would do something for me。
That actually only God can do。
you know, I。
Was I thought this thing will bring me security. I thought this thing will bring me significance, but it doesn't you know。
That is only found in God。
your significance your security。
And so when our faith is and other things besides God it's it's hard to live a life that's rich towards God。
Because we're trying to hold on to our possessions, you know。
We can't be generous other people because we think these possessions are significant。
so we should be grab onto them and we can't hold them loosely and。
Also keeps us from doing a lot of times the things that Jesus asked us to do。
Which maybe there's a brother or sister. He wants us to be generous to you。
But if we think this thing will secure us we can't let it go。
We can't be generous to that person。
And。
Jesus he wants to break the power of this grip of greed in our lives。
He wants us to be free。
Or you were saying what freedom。
So we can be free to love other people。
It can be free to reflect a carrot of God of generosity towards others。
That doesn't just have to be about ourselves and we don't have to direct, you know。
All this wealth or whatever it is to us and by the way。
This can be anyone you can be rich or poor and and we still struggle with the same heart issue。
You know, it's not about who has a lot or who doesn't have much we could we all struggle with with greed。
It's a heart issue for all of us。
and。
And then Jesus actually we're not going to read further. I'm gonna tell you what happens afterwards. He talks about not being anxious。
Because our loving father cares for us and to seek first his kingdom。
and。
Then all these things will be added unto you。
you know, it's and。
Isn't that amazing that actually God promises us that when we are generous when we live a life。
That's you know of love and serving our labors and making investments in the kingdom。
Then he will provide for us. He actually will give us what we need。
It doesn't mean that we're you know, he's gonna not give us a yacht or something like that。
But but he will provide for us what we need. He will take care of us。
So seeking the kingdom, you know if we make that a priority in our lives it it means that we're willing to do God's will。
And it means that we're following Jesus in all aspects of our lives。
but if we're holding idols, you know, they keep us from doing that and。
So Jesus wants to free us。
So we can actually fully follow him that we can fully live for him and I just picture as a church wouldn't it be amazing?。
if we all just grow in。
seeking the kingdom and。
In obedience to Jesus and living generous lives and growing in generosity. I think it's a process a lot of times。
It's not like what's time it's not just from one moment to next that you completely change。
What impact you know, we as a community could have for God's kingdom would be amazing. I want to see that。
But but in order to do that we need faith。
And we struggle to trust God that he will care for us and he will provide for us。
So my sense for this that Jesus wants to give us faith faith。
You know that he actually wants to today release faith on us。
He wants to give us trust so that we can courage us and live for him that we don't have to live in fear。
Because it's like, you know, we live by fear when we're holding on to possessions. We're living in fear。
Because we think these things will deliver。
But he's calling us the faith in him, you know that he loves you. He loves us。
He loves our heavenly father loves his children, you know, he will provide for us。
I was as I was thinking about as I was reminded of。
Being in the US as a child. I couldn't swim and I was a little kid。
We read some friends that lived in apartment complex。
He had a swimming pool like, you know that people live there can use and。
So I remember like running and jumping in a swimming pool, even I couldn't swim。
It's not a good idea, right。
But the reason why I could do it was because my father was there。
Because he caught me because I knew I could trust him. I could rely on him。
I could take the step of faith, you know and jump there because he would take care of me。
He would help me get back to the edge of the pool. I even went on the diving board。
You know and jumped in but it's just because I knew my father had my back and in a similar。
way when we when we know。
Just the father's love when when we know the saving love and care of Jesus in our lives it。
frees us。
to be generous and loving towards others。
You know。
We can have that same type of faith where we can just dive in because we know he loves us。
He will take care of us. We can be bold。
But if we don't if we don't know his love if you don't believe it if you struggle trust in his heart。
So I also believe that today God wants to reveal his love to us。
You know that that the reality of his love can break over our lives。
That we can start living differently and we can start living generously。
Beautifully abundantly and be rich towards God。
And seek his kingdom first and make incredible。
investments in this kingdom and。
See God do things that have。
Eternal, you know consequences that make an eternal difference。
So, how can I be rich towards God and。
Invest how can we be rich for us God invest ourselves in what truly matters?。
One invite the worship team to come up。
How can we take the step of actually living in this radical generosity。
That Jesus called us to where we're not just about accumulating things for ourselves。
We're not living in fear, but where you can live in faith。
How do we actually do that?。
Well, the first thing is it's not about trying harder。
you know, it's not not about I'm gonna try harder to be more generous and。
Give a little and give a little my time give a little my energy give a little bit of my money。
No, it's it's actually acknowledging。
It's surrendering to Jesus. It's like I can't do this。
And I need you。
That's also asking Jesus. I've been holding this this idol in my heart that I think delivers what only you can give。
Will you forgive me for this and will instead will you show me?。
You know your love for me。
Will you show me that you care for me that you provide for me that you will give me what I need。
and。
Then as that that reality breaks over our lives as a spirit of God, you know makes that known to us。
And we can ask them a Lord what how do you want me to be generous this week?。
What do you want me to do?。
You know, how can I show love?。
Towards people around me. Maybe how can I show love towards people here in this church community?。
How can I show love towards people in my family and in outside, you know the wider you long community?。
And then when God reveals to you what to do, you know, take the step of faith you jump into the pool and。
And you do it and you trust, you know that he will work through it。
But you also trust that you're not gonna suffer loss because of it。
You know, but that you are gonna live life that's rich towards God。
So I want to invite everyone to stand and I would love to pray over us。
If。
What invites you to?。
Really think about right now. Am I seeking his kingdom first or is there other things I'm seeking after?。
Am I seeking his kingdom first or there are other things I'm seeking after。
And。
If you。
Just say Jesus I want to seek your kingdom, you know。
But I'm but I'm struggling to trust you that you are truly good that you will truly deliver that you will truly provide. I。
Just want to invite you to stretch out your hand, you know as an expression。
Of just openness to God and just a desire and a surrender。
To him like I want to seek you. I want to live for you。
I don't I want these idols to rule in my heart. I want you Jesus to rule my heart and let me pray over you。
Jesus I I thank you so much that you love us so incredibly much。
Lord, you know all of our journeys, you know every single heart in this room。
You know the things that we hold dear。
That we think will you know provide for us deliver things for us give us security。
But it's pray that everything is a lie that you expose that right now。
That you help us instead to turn our hearts to you now place our faith and our trust in you I。
Asked Holy Spirit that you will come right now and you reveal your love to us。
The love of the father who doesn't abandon his children who doesn't give bad gifts. He gives good gifts。
That's a father that and will add these things unto you when you live that radical life of generosity。
And radical life of faith of following him of doing the things Jesus calls us to do。
Or will you pour out just this faith and discourage in our hearts。
We forgive us for you know for greed where we failed you but will you help us by your spirit to live differently。
Will you strengthen us by your grace will you help us to be people of faith not people of fear。
We know that is your spirits work. It's not we can't。
Do this out of our own strength Lord's will you come right now? We help us to be seekers of your kingdom。
As a community I pray all this in your name Jesus. Amen。
Let's worship。
