- Amen. - Amen.。
- Thank you.。
- Isn't he amazing?。
(audience applauding)。
Thank you, Leslie.。
How's everyone doing?。
Weather's finally changing.。
Are you enjoying it so far?。
I love the weather this week.。
That I have to put on something extra to tell you。
I'm really enjoying it.。
So on Wednesday night, I remember after Alpha,。
I was leaving the building on my way to the bus stop。
and I was like, "Oh, that's awesome!"。
I missed it!。
To a point that when I reached the bus stop,。
I actually have to take out my phone,。
took a picture, put it on Instagram immediately,。
on stories and say, "I love the weather."。
I hope you're enjoying it because we don't get this a lot.。
Weather has been pretty hot, humid, terrible。
in the last couple of weeks, years, months, I don't know.。
And I was actually Googling, not Googling,。
I first saw this on IG a couple days ago.。
It says that this mid-autumn, two weeks ago,。
it was the hottest mid-autumn ever。
in the history of Hong Kong.。
So I really, I saw it on the news, I didn't make this up.。
Hong Kong sees hottest mid-autumn festival。
since records began in 1884.。
And I actually continued to do a little bit of digging。
and mainly I was searching Chinese news,。
which I don't have it here,。
but I'll show it to the Chinese congregation.。
I found out that last year, 2023,。
it was also a record-breaking hottest autumn last year.。
And then I continued to dig and realized in 2019,。
it was then also the record-breaking highest temperature,。
hottest autumn ever.。
So we had three record breakers in the last five years。
when it comes to how hot it's been.。
Isn't it crazy?。
So I know, I know that, I know there's a debate out there。
whether global warming is fake news or not,。
I really know that.。
But like whenever I go out,。
whenever I sit in a house without turning on the air con,。
I know, like I'm so convinced that global warming,。
it's quite real.。
That heat is just unbearable.。
The thing about global warming is this,。
I grew up in a church here in Hong Kong.。
For 99% of the church meetings or services I've been to,。
whenever the topic global warming was brought up,。
99%, the implication was always the same.。
Jesus is coming back, it's the end times, the end is near.。
Come on guys, repent and go and preach the gospel.。
I don't know about you,。
but I grew up in this part of the world。
and in this part of the world, in the church,。
99%, when we talk about global warming,。
we talk about the end times,。
we talk about Jesus coming back,。
so you should go out and preach the gospel.。
And yes, I do agree that there is an urgency of evangelism.。
But as you know, as much as we love evangelism。
here in this church,。
and by the way, Alpha on Tuesday and Wednesday,。
that's our expression of evangelism,。
and it's just the second week, or third week this week,。
so there is still time to bring friends.。
Okay, advertisement done.。
But as much as we love evangelism in this church,。
as we are wrapping up the Justice series,。
I do want to allow me to share from another perspective.。
You know, in the last couple of weeks,。
we actually explore four different spheres of relationship.。
We have that slide from Pastor Tim, I brought it back again.。
We talk about different, the four sphere of relationships,。
us with God, with ourselves, with others, and with creation.。
And we talked a little bit about the other three,。
God, ourselves, and others.。
And so today, we are gonna close the series。
with talking about our relationship with creation.。
And in the whole sermon series,。
we've been talking about how God。
originally designed these four relationships,。
or spheres of relationships,。
so that we could enjoy or experience shalom。
in these contexts.。
But tragically, humanity, we decided to rebel against God。
and sin against God, and consequently,。
we suffered from the disruption。
of all these four different relationships.。
Remember, Pastor Tim, he got like something,。
yeah, he drew on that, yeah.。
Oh, yes, yes.。
So you probably remember that.。
So we talked about this disruption of this relationship.。
And in previous week,。
we look at broken relationships with God,。
with ourselves, two weeks ago,。
I spoke a little bit about that.。
And last week, we talked about a relationship with others.。
And today, we will look at the final one.。
We will explore God's original intention。
for our relationship with the rest of his creation,。
what happened when humanity decided to rebel,。
and how would God fix this mess?。
And I believe today,。
we will also answer a very important question.。
What does being a follower of Christ have to do。
with all the efforts to protect and preserve the planet。
we now reside on?。
Why, like why do we care as Christians?。
And I could tell you from my experience,。
could we have the next slide, please?。
As a Christian spending like my entire life in Hong Kong,。
growing up in the church,。
every time when there is these like NGO coming to my school,。
giving a talk, or I see a TV program or advertisement,。
I never felt that was,。
or I know the urgency,。
but I never felt it has anything to do with my faith,。
with my identity as a Christian.。
But I believe today, we are going to dive deep into that.。
But just let me say that I'm not here to give you。
some educational information or presentation.。
I wanna open the word of God with you.。
And I can only do that in the power of the Holy Spirit。
and in his enlightenment.。
So how about we pray together first?。
Is that right?。
Father, we wanna know your heart.。
Perhaps this is one of the blind spot in your church,。
our relationship with the rest of your creation.。
So Father, we just pray that today,。
it's not just information,。
it's not just Bible knowledge.。
Father, we wanna know your heart.。
And I know as much as your heart burns for us,。
your heart burns for the rest of your creation.。
They are your craftsmanship as well.。
So God, we pray you would come。
and share your heart with us today.。
In Jesus name we pray.。
Amen.。
If you wanna know God's original plan for us。
and for the rest of creation,。
of course you have to go back to a book in the Bible.。
And that is Genesis.。
I hear that, yes.。
So we're going back to Genesis one.。
I'll be short 'cause I know you know a lot about that.。
Let's go to verse 20.。
I'll start with 28 maybe.。
God blessed them, Adam and Eve,。
and said to them, "Be fruitful and increase in number,。
fill the earth and subdue it.。
Rule over the fish in the sea and birds in the sky。
and over every living creature that moves on the ground."。
All right, Genesis one,。
it says we were to subdue and rule over God's creation.。
Do you feel very powerful right now?。
So we're the boss, right?。
We all rule over them.。
But does that mean we can do whatever we want?。
Let's look at one more verse in the next chapter.。
We're gonna look at chapter two, verse 15.。
Here it says, "The Lord God took the man, Adam,。
and put him in the Garden of Eden to work it。
and take care of it."。
And let's take a closer look at these two verbs here,。
to work and to take care.。
The Hebrew word for work here, it's avad.。
It means to serve with a sense of doing hard work。
in the process of serving.。
So God says, "I'm gonna put Adam, I'm gonna put you here.。
I'm gonna put humanity in my garden."。
And they are to serve it,。
serve it with diligence, with hard work.。
And also they are to take care of it.。
And the Hebrew word here is shamar.。
Shamar literally means to guard and to preserve.。
So we are in charge of security, basically.。
Or we're in charge of growing it, developing it.。
So our job as humans or as image bearers of God,。
we were supposed to rule over creation,。
but it means in a way of serving, of caring,。
so that the whole creation would flourish under our care.。
That's the original plan.。
And if we look at the book of Psalms,。
we will see two interesting descriptions.。
Let's look at Psalms 24, verse one.。
It says here, "The earth is the Lord's。
and everything in it, the world and all who live in it."。
So here it says, "The earth is the Lord's,"。
and it speaks of God's ownership over the entire creation.。
But here in the next verse on the screen,。
Psalm 115, 16, it says this,。
"The highest heavens belong to the Lord,。
but the earth he has given to mankind," or human race.。
So the earth he has given to human race.。
These two statements are kind of like,。
if you first listen to it, you're like,。
are you sure, like, are they saying the same thing,。
or like, are they different?。
They're actually complementary to each other.。
They actually together give us a full picture.。
So while Psalm 24 speaks of the ownership。
of God in his creation,。
Psalm 115 actually talks about our stewardship。
because of his delegation.。
So God, at his creation, he has ownership,。
but on the other hand, because of his delegation to us,。
we have stewardship.。
So while God owns everything because he's the creator,。
he has chosen a partnership.。
He has chosen a partnership with you and me。
and with humanity as his representative。
to rule over the creation.。
We rule on his behalf.。
We are his stewards, or we're supposed to be,。
of course, right, until the fall.。
So two weeks ago, I talk about what happened。
in the Garden of Eden in Genesis chapter three,。
when Adam and Eve decided to take the fruit。
from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil,。
I mentioned how their rejection of God。
immediately resulted in the rejection of themselves,。
and they were left with shame and insecurity。
and selfishness in their brokenness.。
We were supposed to be other-centered.。
If you still remember what I talked about two weeks ago,。
we were supposed to care for others,。
meaning that we were supposed to have this capacity。
to care for other people around us。
and also for the rest of God's creation.。
We were supposed to have their best interest in our mind,。
and that's the part of what stewardship would look like,。
that we care for them even more than ourselves sometimes.。
But as we have witnessed this。
in the long history of humanity again and again,。
our selfishness and our self-centeredness。
has corrupted us, right?。
It turns us from stewards into consumers, like takers.。
We take what we want for our own pleasure.。
Our primary goal becomes the satisfactions。
of our own desires over everything else.。
So speaking of consumers,。
I remember when I was a little bit younger,。
what they call in a stormy kind of period of life,。
I couldn't exactly say my relationship with my family,。
especially my parents.。
I can't say it's a loving relationship.。
I remember I didn't talk a lot with them back then.。
So what I do, it's I would always hang out。
with other people or just by myself outside。
until very, very late, until everyone at home is asleep,。
and then I would go home so I don't have to talk to anyone.。
And so because I went home so late。
and I slept in like really, really late as well,。
so by the time I woke up the next morning,。
everybody has gone to work or school or whatever,。
so I never had to speak to anyone.。
Until there was one day, I think my dad was lucky,。
he caught me while both of us were awake,。
and he said this to me,。
"What do you think of this place?。
"Do you treat your home as a hotel?"。
And speaking of hotel, I'm actually traveling this week,。
and I must say that sometimes the best part。
of my favorite part of traveling is staying in a hotel。
because I don't have to make my bed in the morning.。
When I wake up, I can mess it up,。
and I go out and I come back,。
oh, it's just new as, you know, it's a new bed.。
I can mess up the bathroom, the entire room,。
I can throw things everywhere.。
When I come back, oh, it's a new room.。
So I can do whatever I want, right?。
And I can, you know, I can mess it up,。
I can do whatever I want,。
and in the hotel, I always get what I want.。
My, you know, I don't have any responsibilities,。
I only have rights there.。
Yeah, I know, of course, I have to pay,。
but then when you go in there,。
you're the customers, you're always right,。
I can get what I want, how I want, when I want.。
That's consumer, rights only, without responsibility.。
And as a result of what happened in the garden。
in Genesis chapter three, humans, we,。
we traded responsible stewardship。
with selfish consumerism.。
Hey, let me say that again.。
We traded responsible stewardship。
with selfish consumerism.。
And that's what we've been doing to our environment,。
to the creation of God, deforestation,。
destruction of natural habitats of many plants。
and animal species in exchange for urban development,。
overfishing, industrial pollution in the air, water,。
just to name a few, and what's really injustice here。
is not just what we do to the environment。
or to the creation of God.。
A lot of times, urban pollution,。
those who are really affected are the poor,。
are the underprivileged.。
And while the rich, the privileged,。
they just enjoy their life and they continue。
with their lifestyle and the pollution went on and on,。
and those who suffer are normally those without resources.。
That's injustice.。
The breakdown of our relationship。
with the environment or creation。
didn't just come from a sinfulness,。
although we just talk about that,。
it also comes from the judgment of God.。
So we know that actually God talked to Adam and Eve。
after they took the fruit, after they tried to hide.。
This is where I left off last time,。
so I'm gonna read from Genesis 3, let's start with 17.。
So to Adam, God said, "Because you listened to your wife。
"and ate fruit from the tree which I commanded you。
"you must not eat from it,。
"cursed is the ground because of you.。
"Through painful toil, you will eat fruit from it。
"all the days of your life," and so on and on and on.。
So here we see something that we might have missed。
in our reading of the Bible.。
What we see here, it's a fundamental change。
in the relationship between human beings。
and the land and the rest of creation.。
Our job as humans was to work and to take care of the land。
and it would, on your hand, produce and provide what we need。
but it will now be done in the context of brokenness,。
hard labor and potential fruitlessness.。
So we can work all day and we can farm。
but maybe there are storms or there are calamities。
and the ground is not producing what we want.。
So we experience that, we experience fruitlessness。
and our relationship with the earth,。
with the creation, it's broken.。
Let me read to you from a Bible scholar,。
his name is Douglas Moo.。
It's a little bit long but I'm just gonna read from it.。
He says, "While creation, not in itself,。
"guilty of sin, creation suffers。
"because of the sin of human beings,"。
which we just talked about.。
"The sin of Adam brought God's curse on creation,。
"a curse that focuses on new estrangement。
"between humans and creation.。
"Continuing human sin corrupts creation in various ways.。
"We selfishly and mindlessly consume its resources.。
"We pollute it with unsafe manufacturing processes.。
"We accelerate potential harmful atmospheric changes。
"by pouring greenhouse gases into the air.。
"Simply put, the decay of creation means。
"that it is used and abused in ways God never intended,。
"preventing it from being what it was designed to be。
"and thereby hindering its ability fully to glorify God."。
So there's one thing very important.。
We thought as human beings we are the only creation。
and the entire world that only we could glorify God。
because we are the image of God.。
Sorry, that's not what the Bible is saying.。
The Bible says God takes glory in his entire creation.。
When you look at sunrise or sunset,。
when you look at the beauty of it,。
normally your first reaction is, wow, God, you're amazing.。
But nowadays in Hong Kong, you try to look at a sunset,。
oh, it's foggy, that's smoky,。
like I can't see the sunset really.。
Our pollution, we are undermining the creation's ability。
to reflect God's glory.。
Just one very small example.。
This is what he's saying.。
This is what happens when the earth is filled。
with selfish consumers rather than faithful stewards.。
And it is taking up more and more airtime。
on our news in recent years.。
It's not too hard for us to notice that this generation,。
our generation, is starting to witness。
and even suffer from the consequences of human selfishness。
and abuse towards the environment.。
Hottest mid-autumn or whatever day every year.。
If every year the temperature,。
we have a record-breaking temperature,。
it's getting hotter and hotter,。
could you even imagine what it's gonna look like。
in a children's generation?。
And in the generation of the children of our children?。
What would that look like?。
Sometimes when I think of my kids, I'm like,。
if I'm feeling so horrible right now,。
what are they gonna go through in 30 years time。
when they're my age?。
The stewards are irresponsible, that's unfortunate.。
But the good news is that the owner is always faithful.。
And here's the important part we always miss out。
in the story of God, that Christ,。
He didn't just come to redeem you and me or humanity.。
He came to redeem and restore His entire creation.。
We can see His end game in the last book of the Bible,。
which is Revelation.。
He's going to renew His creation.。
He's going to make all things new.。
And you have to note that,。
He's not going to make all new things.。
He's going to make all things new.。
He's going to renew His whole creation.。
So we now have a creation that is suffering。
because of the sins of human,。
but God has promised that one day。
He will make all things new。
when Jesus eventually comes back。
as the glorious and victorious King。
to right every wrong and to destroy evil。
from the planet earth once and for all.。
And so I want to, in light of this,。
I want to read to you what Paul wrote in Romans 8,。
which you may have read, but found it a little bit weird.。
I'm telling you, a lot of us, a lot of churches,。
we never talk about justice and creation.。
We never read the Bible this way.。
So this part of the Bible or these couple of verses。
always seem very weird to us.。
But if you could look at these verses。
through the lens of justice and creation,。
everything would become just crystal clear.。
Let me read it to you.。
Romans 8, starting from verse 19.。
For the creation waits in eager expectation。
for the children of God to be revealed.。
Just let me pause and explain to you here.。
Who's the children of God here?。
Anybody?。
Okay, got a few at least, not bad.。
I expected a little bit more.。
I hope we should really work hard on evangelism, Tim.。
Anyway, okay.。
As the children of God here, we're saved by grace.。
We're saved by Jesus.。
And so what does revelation of God's children。
mean by Paul here?。
We have been through the Galatians series.。
We know that now God causes his children, we're in Jesus,。
and he sends his spirit of his son into us.。
So now we're his children, we're his sons and daughters.。
But we know that even though we're saved,。
we're not experiencing the entire eternal life right now。
because we're still going through sickness and death。
on this planet.。
So eternal life, it started already,。
but we only experience the fullness of it。
when Jesus come back, when our bodies,。
these dead bodies will resurrect one day with him。
because of his resurrection.。
We're going to resurrect with him.。
That's the day when the children of God are fully revealed.。
So this is what Paul is talking about here.。
The creation waits in eager expectation for that day,。
for the children of God to be revealed.。
For the creation was subjected to frustration。
or fertility in some versions, not by his own choice,。
but by the will of the one who subjected it。
because of the sins of human, because we're tied together.。
God subjected creation to humans.。
When we sin, when we choose to pollute this earth,。
it's affected.。
This earth, this creation, it was supposed to reflect。
the glory of God, but now that purpose was destroyed as well。
because of our sin.。
It was subjected to frustration, subjected to fertility.。
But in, let me just see where I am.。
But yeah, so verse 21, in hope that the creation itself。
will be liberated from its bondage to decay。
and brought into the freedom and glory of children of God.。
Again, our glory comes from the day。
when Christ finally returns as the victorious King。
and we will experience resurrection.。
And that day is the day the entire creation。
is looking forward to.。
They would experience liberation from bondage to decay.。
Let's see what we're doing to the earth right now.。
It's getting worse and worse, it's decaying.。
But that day when the sons and daughters of God are revealed。
when we are finally standing in a glory with Jesus,。
the entire earth, they will be liberated.。
Why?。
Because it's not just about us getting into heaven。
and like, oh hallelujah.。
It's about us being restored first as sons and daughters。
of God and we will stand in a rightful place。
when a relationship with God is restored,。
a rightful place as stewards of this planet。
will be restored.。
And then we would know it's time for us to work,。
to avart and to shamar, to care for the entire creation。
around us when the sons and daughters of God are restored。
and we're standing in that glory。
when we are so secure in our identity in Christ,。
we know we are sons and daughters of God.。
We know we're supposed to be in a partnership with Him。
to take care of the entire creation.。
We're supposed to rule over it.。
And when we accept that responsibility,。
that's the liberation of the creation.。
They can finally say, oh, thank you.。
I love verse 22.。
It says, we know that the whole creation has been groaning。
as in the pains of childbirth right up to the present time.。
I have the privilege to witness childbirth。
two times in my life.。
And it's painful to watch, to even just watch.。
Of course, also because that person will pinch you,。
but it's just painful to watch。
without her pinching me as well.。
Anyway, yeah, it's really painful.。
But in that pain, (groans)。
you know something beautiful, it's coming.。
That's what's happening with creation.。
They know that the new creation is coming.。
They know Jesus is coming back to right every wrong,。
to make all things new.。
They are suffering right now,。
but they're looking forward to that day。
when God finally comes back。
and all his people will stand with him。
in their rightful place at the steward of this world.。
And they are waiting, eagerly waiting for that day.。
They say, finally, please, I want that day to come quickly.。
Please, they're groaning right now.。
And that is what is happening with creation right now.。
Paul is saying, you know what?。
The entire creation is suffering just like you and me.。
We're suffering from sickness, from pain,。
from this life as well.。
But we know that one day。
we would experience bodily resurrection.。
And in the same way, the creation will be renewed.。
And they are also looking forward to that。
when God comes back and make all things new.。
You see, the cross of Jesus。
restored our relationship with God,。
with ourselves, with others.。
And it restored our relationship with the creation as well.。
He reconciled us back to, Jesus reconciled us back to him,。
to God, and so we can trust him.。
We can follow him.。
We can obey him.。
We can be obedient to his standards。
of right and wrong, of good and evil.。
And we can finally partner with him。
to rule over his creation.。
We can only do it if we say amen to his standards.。
When we obey him.。
We cannot do it in our own way.。
Otherwise, we're just gonna be selfish consumers.。
We're just gonna mess it up again.。
Only when we come finally with obedience to Jesus,。
we can take up that rightful place as stewards,。
as rulers in this planet,。
to work to take care of the creation。
that God has put in our charge.。
So church, that means being a disciple of Jesus,。
we now move from selfish consumerism。
back to faithful and responsible stewardship.。
That's what being a Christian is all about.。
Oh, not all about, but yeah, there's so many things,。
but this is one of the many things.。
And the theologian John Stott, he put it this way.。
He said, "Our care of the creation。
"will reflect our love of the creator."。
Can I get an amen for that?。
It's time for us to do that.。
I'm just gonna quote one more theologian.。
His name is Chris Wright.。
Says this, "It seems quite inexplicable to me。
"that there are some Christians。
"who claim to love and worship God,。
"to be disciples of Jesus,。
"and yet have no concern for the earth。
"that bears his stamp of ownership.。
"They do not care about the abuse of the earth,。
"and indeed, by their wasteful。
"and over-consumptive lifestyles,。
"they contribute to it."。
Guilty as charged.。
(audience member speaking faintly)。
If you wanna know how we're supposed to rule over creation,。
I think we just need to look at Jesus.。
In Matthew 5, verse five, Jesus says this.。
He says, "Blessed are the meek,。
"for they will inherit the earth."。
Jesus presented meekness as a profound quality。
that contrasts sharply with typical notions。
of power and authority.。
If we follow the example of Jesus,。
it would mean rejecting exploitative power。
and embracing stewardship rooted in love.。
Our authority over creation should be characterized。
by compassion, by restoration, and by service.。
We should be serving the environment around us.。
So I know this is, whoa, theology.。
This is like, whoa, very, in Singlish,。
they call it very chim, which means very abstract, right?。
No, very deep, very profound.。
I still get Singlish wrong, anyway.。
But I've got three very practical tips for us.。
Some of them you might have heard of it before.。
Some of them, hopefully, you're practicing,。
but let's just go through them.。
I think we can live sustainably,。
and it cannot be overemphasized in our age right now.。
If you're not using those lights or fans。
or electrical appliances, just,。
there's an off button there, you know, right?。
Just switch it off.。
You know, don't use too many papers.。
You know, recycle, the three R's,。
reduce, recycle, and reuse.。
You know, all these, we've been educated enough,。
we have enough knowledge to live sustainably.。
Quoting Master Yoda from Star Wars,。
stop trying and just do it, all right?。
Number two, consume consciously.。
I have a confession.。
I have spent less money in the past year,。
partly because I switched to a part-time role。
from a full-time role,。
and then I started challenging myself,。
do I really need those stuff that I casually buy。
without even looking at the price tag?。
And then I realized in the past year,。
I bought a lot less clutter,。
according to Rosalind, those are clutter.。
So I, and I still survive, or I thrive,。
like nothing is wrong with me,。
and I'm enjoying my life,。
so buying less is not a problem at all.。
And I'm telling you, you know how fast。
the expansion of the population has been.。
Currently, in 2020, it was about 60 billion,。
six billion, 60 billion?。
Too bad, six billion, six billion.。
2020, it was about six billion people.。
Right now, seven-something billion people.。
Projection says by 2050,。
there will be 9.5 billion people on the planet.。
Do you know what that means?。
Number one, there will be food shortage,。
and number two, we're creating a lot of rubbish every day.。
Every time I taobao, I have a confession to God,。
secretly I'm like, God, I don't know why they do that.。
I just buy this small part of a camera, accessories,。
and they give me a box like this.。
God, forgive me, and forgive them.。
The more we consume, the more we create waste.。
So consume consciously.。
And number three, choose simplicity.。
Do you know that simplicity is actually。
a spiritual discipline in Christianity?。
We are supposed to live a simple life,。
life doesn't have to be too complicated.。
You don't need like 10 holidays,。
you don't need like 10 different sets of headphones,。
or 10 different watches, or 10 different,。
sorry, sorry, I see somebody looking at their wrist。
immediately, sorry, sorry, sorry, okay.。
But you know, you get what I mean.。
We can choose simplicity,。
we can consume consciously, responsibly,。
we can live sustainably.。
I actually have an open water scuba diver license,。
to your surprise.。
So I used to be part of a diver's community,。
and every year around spring,。
the diver's community would go out,。
go to Saicom or somewhere,。
they would dive and clean the bottom of the ocean.。
And do you know what day that is?。
Do you know what day they choose to do that?。
No, it's spring, so they chose to,。
close, they actually, not the birthday of Jesus,。
they chose to do it in the Tin Hao birthday.。
So you know that place Tin Hao in Causeway Bay, right?。
Tin Hao, it's actually the goddess of sea。
in the Chinese tradition.。
What does that mean?。
It means that there are people in this city。
choosing to avart, to shamar the creation of God。
in the name of an idol.。
And we're doing nothing.。
If we are truly followers of Jesus,。
if we truly understand what it means。
that the earth belongs to God,。
he has his ownership, but we have a stewardship,。
but if we really understand what stewardship。
in Christ look like,。
I think there's so much more we can do。
for the creation of God.。
Can I get an amen for that?。
How about we invite the Holy Spirit。
to convict our hearts and why don't we pray together now?。
Let's pray.。
Yeah, God, like thinking of people。
who are caring for your creation in the name of an idol。
give me goosebumps, like, oh, I can't live with it.。
But yeah, God, we are, as Christians,。
as the rightful stewards of your creation,。
we are doing nothing.。
We thought it's not in the Bible,。
I didn't see environmental protection in the Bible,。
so it's none of my business, I don't have to do anything.。
Father, we are sorry。
that we, maybe many people in this room, like me,。
we could identify more with the selfish consumer。
rather than the faithful stewards in your kingdom.。
God, we pray for your forgiveness.。
Father, we come before you today to confess our sins,。
to say that, Lord, we know we have been contributing。
to injustice in this world。
because our relationship with the creation was broken.。
Our relationship with you is broken.。
So, God, we just pray that today you will come。
and restore those relationships.。
I pray that there will be a conviction in our hearts。
in your church today。
that we know what it means to be your sons and daughters,。
to be stewards of your creation,。
what it means to rule over。
with the heart of Jesus,。
to protect, to conserve,。
to serve.。
Father, we just pray that you will come and speak to us。
in our everyday life.。
And if there are initiatives,。
if there are things that we can do,。
we pray you just give us that prompt and say,。
"Hey, let's go and do it."。
Father, we pray we will be protector of your creation,。
not destroyer.。
So come, Holy Spirit.。
In Jesus' name we pray, amen.。
