Amen. Hey, can we thank our worship team today?。
Members from our Arise community on the drums. So appreciate that. Thank you so much.。
Have a seat, everyone. Welcome. If you're just joining us online, we're so glad that you're joining us today, too.。
We're celebrating World Refugee Day across our services. It's not just something that happens here in Hong Kong.。
It's a global day that's celebrated by churches, NGOs and organizations around the world.。
And it's our great privilege to be a part of that and a part of that story today.。
And I want to tell you a little bit about how we're going to be doing that in a moment.。
We've got the great privilege of having and hearing from the head of our refugee and asylum seeker development program with branches of hope, Roy Mjwabe.。
And Roy is going to be here with us today, just sharing his heart for what it is for us to create a home together for asylum seekers at this time.。
And then during Roy's message with us, we're actually going to take the opportunity to interview and have a conversation with two people that have made Hong Kong their home.。
One being an asylum seeker and one being a local Chinese born congregation member.。
We're going to hear what their story has been like experiencing home together here in Hong Kong.。
So we're going to hear from Roy, but we're also going to hear from some of our asylum seekers and some of our community members and our congregation members here at the Vine as well.。
But before we do any of that, we wanted to help frame what a day in the life can look like for one of our asylum seekers.。
And particularly to see how our asylum seekers go out of their way to do their best to integrate themselves into Hong Kong society so that they can be not just people that are here in need, but here as contributors.。
And we think here at the Vine and at branches of hope that our asylum seekers have so much to offer to Hong Kong during their time that they're with us.。
And so this little video will give you a sense of what it is to be an asylum seeker and also to see how asylum seekers are integrating into Hong Kong society.。
So would you join me in checking out this short film?。
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
- Hi, I'm KK.。
I'm from Pakistan.。
I come in Hong Kong in 2001 because of some situation in my countries.。
When I arrived, everything is so different to me.。
I talk to myself.。
I cannot change my home, but I get the new place.。
This is my new home.。
I get in the Kowloon Park.。
And almost I going to the--。
passing my time for the exercise.。
So that time, they are mostly, of course, in the Hong Kong people there.。
So I learned from them the Cantonese language.。
When I start to speaking in the Cantonese language here, so that time, first of all, I feel happy too because those people is treating me very well and very good and respectful to me.。
I meet my wife.。
It's very short in time to I come in Hong Kong.。
So I have four children.。
They are going to all in the school.。
They grow up here in Hong Kong.。
Every day, mostly, especially my job for the exercise also, about my health, I bring my children in the early morning to the school.。
And after, I going to the market for buying the vegetables and the things for using at home.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Home to me is where you are part of the society.。
I don't know what will be happening in the tomorrow and in the future life.。
But right now, I'm in Hong Kong.。
Hong Kong is my home countries.。
And this is my country.。
And only God know what will be happen.。
And I'm always looking God's hand.。
God will be help.。
And God will be done.。
Everything is perfect for me.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
Hello, and welcome to this World Refugee Day 2021.。
I am very excited to celebrate this important day with you all together with our refugees and asylum seekers in Hong Kong and all over the world.。
My name is Roy Njuabe.。
I'm the head of the Refugee Opportunity and Development Program at Branches of Hope.。
And I'm very honored to share with you this message today.。
It's a day that was set aside by United Nations to commemorate the strength and resilience of refugees.。
And this year, the theme for the United Nations is that we should consider the power of inclusion.。
The power of inclusion.。
That is to include refugees and asylum seekers into our health system, in our education system, as well as our support system.。
Here at Branches of Hope and Divine, we join this global celebration with the theme Home Together.。
The video you just watched, if we remove the title "Refugee" out of KK, he's just like any one of us.。
Going his normal day, take the kid to school, cook for the children at home, as well as trying to make Hong Kong a very beautiful home for everyone.。
Whenever I think of the word "home," it often draws me back to my childhood memories.。
I am home. That's a common word for my dad when he comes back from work.。
And we all rush to him and say, "Hello, Daddy. Welcome back home."。
Me and my sibling, we're very excited to see Daddy every time at home after work.。
And today is Father's Day as well.。
I remember my father, too. He passed away a long, long time ago.。
And we all want to honor the refugees, fathers in this hall and also all over the world,。
who have to take care of their children even though they don't have the right to work.。
You can work, but you have to take care of your little ones.。
Whenever we picture home, we often have this perception that, oh, for example, the Vine is my home church.。
I am going home for holidays. I'm going home after work.。
Hello, bye, everyone. Bye, my colleagues. I'm going home. The day is done.。
Home can be that very wonderful place that we have this special connection to.。
To some of us, this place can be a very good and fresh memories.。
And to others, home can be a very bad place to be.。
And I'm sure we all strive to make home a very good place to be.。
Every society is striving to create that beautiful space with good memories.。
Every society wants to create a special home for themselves,。
to make it remarkable, comfortable, culturally unique, with some special people inside.。
People, they want to invite people that will come on with wealth to make it in a very rich place.。
They want to invite people who come on with some kind of positive vibe, positive energy and some values.。
They want to invite people that will come in with all the good things that they could ever list in their lives.。
And so, they often select those that want to be in their home space.。
And with our current world system, refugees are often considered towards the bottom of the list of those that we want them to be in our home.。
The majority of countries these days don't want refugees.。
They often push them away like rejected stones that they build and don't want.。
The process to find a home for refugees is not easy at all.。
It comes with a lot of rejections and pains and sacrifices.。
Sometimes when the refugees are struggling to find a home, it could lead them to death.。
Without a choice, refugees have to flee a broken and unstable home in search for a new and peaceful home.。
And on this journey, they are often stuck between a broken home and an unknown home.。
Life can be very confusing when you are between, especially when you don't have the right at that temporal home.。
I want us to move into our Bible to get some biblical narrative of what to be in a temporal home looks like.。
The Bible is full with so many stories about people who are searching for a new home while they are at a temporal space.。
And one of these stories about the Israelites when they flee from Egypt, God promised them a permanent home.。
The promised land.。
The land was a geographical location that God the Father swore to his chosen people.。
The descendants of Abraham in the book of Genesis 15, you can go and read that there.。
The Israelites were on a journey from a painful, unstable home to a peaceful and stable one.。
And on this journey, they were trapped in between and they had to live in multiple, several locations temporarily.。
As the book of Exodus, we're going to highlight for us how this temporal home was like.。
In Exodus chapter 13, verse 20, it reads, "After living so-called, they camped at Ethan on the edge of the desert."。
Exodus 14, 2, it says, "Then the Lord said to Moses, 'Tell the Israelites to turn back and encamp near Pihah Herod between the Magdol and the sea.。
They are to encamp by the sea directly opposite Beelzebub.'"。
This biblical narrative, we understand that God commanded the Israelites to move from one place to another.。
Isn't that frustrating? You have to carry your kids, your animals, everything.。
You move from one place to another.。
The Israelites also find it so difficult to take care of themselves.。
The experience living in this temporal home was so hard for the Israelites.。
They have to move from one place to another and they could not even feed themselves.。
They had to depend on God from manners from heaven where they were so frustrated, so angry, so confused that they cried out to Moses and said,。
"If only we could have died by the Lord's hands in Egypt.。
There we sat around pots of meat and ate all the food we wanted, but you have brought us out into this desert to starve this entire assembly to death."。
Confusion in a temporal home without a right must be very frustrating.。
For the refugees, they were great people in their countries.。
Businessmen and women, teachers, nurses, veterinarians, farmers, engineers, pharmacists, doctors.。
But in Hong Kong, they had to depend on others to survive.。
They had to tell them where to buy food, that particular shop.。
They had to tell them how much money they're going to use for food each week or each month.。
When you are stuck in between at a temporal place without the opportunity to care for yourself,。
like the refugees who lack the right to work in the city, but you are forced to build a community, you don't feel that.。
You want to be in a place where you have a sense of belonging.。
You want to be in a place where you are under control of what you can do.。
If you don't have this sense of belonging, you become frustrated, and sometimes you start to develop certain kind of mental challenges within yourself.。
The frustration in a temporal home are so deep that the Israelites could not see the fruits in the promised land by the giant.。
The frustration was so deep that they were afraid to even move forward. They wanted to go back.。
For the refugees, sometimes this frustration can go so deep that they could not even see the talent in them,。
but the pain of depending on others for survival.。
When people are stuck in temporal homes, they could be very frustrated, especially when the process is very slow.。
Forty years in a desert. Oh, very slow.。
The refugees are here for how many years? Decades. Some of them 10 and 15 years, and the process is very slow.。
They wait for so long to know whether they have been accepted or rejected before they can move on to a permanent home in the future.。
Sometimes the cases can take so long for it to be processed, and they don't know what to do.。
And that waiting time, some of them will feel like, can I just go back home and face the persecution,。
or should I wait to move to a temporal place or to a permanent place somewhere in a third country?。
Just imagine during this season, I want to bring us to your own context right now.。
Imagine during this COVID season, how many people have been unable to go to their home country to visit their family members.。
At the beginning of the pandemic, it was okay.。
You thought, oh, okay, the virus just disappear after one month or two months, maybe three months, it will be fine, I can travel.。
But then it take months and then years, and they don't even know when you're going to stop.。
You start feeling anxiety and frustrated because you cannot travel to your home country to visit your families and your friends.。
You're afraid to travel because of travel restrictions and quarantine or maybe be infected by the virus.。
Just imagine how frustrated you are in this season, and try to imagine how refugees and asylum seekers can be frustrated living in a temporal place for a very, very long time.。
The refugees are struggling to live with the reality that they cannot travel back to their home country.。
This reality contributed to the anxiety, sleepless night, frustration, confusion in life,。
whether to press on to try to move to the permanent space or to stay or to go back and face all the human rights abuses in their home country.。
By understanding the pain and frustration and anger of the Israelites, we can start to understand how refugees and asylum seekers are struggling living in a temporal place.。
Now the question is, why Hong Kong a temporal place for the refugees and asylum seekers?。
Well, Hong Kong is not a signatory of the 1951 Geneva Convention relating to the status of refugees.。
Therefore, the Hong Kong government has a very firm and strong policy not to grant asylum, which means a refugee or an asylum seeker in this city is temporal.。
They have no path to become citizens in Hong Kong.。
So it means that if they are granted asylum, they will remain asylum or a refugee for the rest of their life once they leave Hong Kong.。
They have just two options.。
When your country is better, you go back, or you have another option for a third country, you can move on.。
So what can we do when we live with people who are temporal in our city?。
The truth is we cannot change the situation, we cannot change the policy of making Hong Kong a permanent home for refugees.。
That is in the hands of the authority.。
But there's something we can do.。
We can do something very special for our refugees.。
We can make this temporal home a very comfortable place, a joyful place to stay with good memories.。
We can open up opportunity for our refugees to enjoy our culture, our society, our spiritual family.。
We can make this temporal home a better place for both the refugees and our children and our families.。
With wisdom, we can work together to build a loving, caring home for our refugees and ourselves.。
Proverbs 24, verse 3 to 4 mention that by wisdom a house is built, and through understanding it is established.。
Through knowledge, rooms are filled with rare and beautiful treasure.。
In my father's house, there's a place for me.。
I'm a child of God, yes I am.。
Now when we sing that song, you can understand that in the house of God, there is a place for everyone.。
And how often do we create space in our own home for others?。
How often do we consider ourselves as that brother and sister that want to create a place, even though it's temporal,。
how do we create that space for our refugees and asylum seekers?。
Each person comes here with a treasure, with a want to contribute to the society.。
This treasure could be as simple as a culture to share with you.。
When we talk about treasure, it's not about a bag of money, or somebody come with millions of dollars to invest in your country.。
It's not about bringing all the wealth and all the beautiful things.。
It might be as simple as a culture to share with you.。
Maybe a simple talent to contribute.。
Maybe an experience that Kushtere could share with you and it would inspire you to think something beautiful.。
We need knowledge to be able to make this treasure and this value an integral part of our community.。
Some of our refugees who are here have been resettled to a third country.。
Part of the work of BOH is to help refugees find a better place, a stable place, a permanent home.。
That promised land, because we know they are living in this country, in this very city, temporarily.。
And there's no way that will change anytime soon.。
That anxiety is there, that fear is there.。
So we want them to move on to a third country where they can have a stable life,。
where they can contribute to the development of those countries.。
And today, I would love to share with you a short video about one of our refugees who went to Canada.。
He was here for more than a decade, struggling, and he was rejected by the immigration system,。
but he was accepted in Canada.。
Two countries, same story, same situation, two countries.。
This one said, "No, I don't need. Your story is not correct."。
This one said, "Oh, come on, your story is correct."。
But anyway, let's see what this guy, how he's contributing right now in Canada.。
Let's watch this short video, and I will come back in a second.。
[Video playing]。
[Speaking in French]。
[Speaking in French]。
He was a refugee in Hong Kong.。
Now he's building homes in Canada that are going to sell to Canadians to live in.。
Isn't that a beautiful way that we could all work together to build our society?。
According to United Nations this year, the power of inclusion means when we learn together,。
we build a stronger community.。
When we get the care that we all need, we heal together.。
When we play as a team, we shine together.。
And as followers of Christ, I want to add these few words to that list.。
When we love each other, we live together.。
When we worship together, we build a stronger faith community.。
When we work together, we build a beautiful and harmonious society.。
Whether we live here temporarily or permanently, you all have something to contribute。
to make this home a beautiful place.。
At Branches of Hope, the R.O.A.D. program is what we are trying to do every day。
to create this learning home for our refugees when they are here.。
We want them to learn something and also to create a caring home for our refugees.。
All what you are doing and all what we are doing together is to make this space。
a little bit caring for our refugees.。
Our secret angel program that you guys all supported goes toward helping our refugees。
find a home that they can live into peacefully.。
We want our place to be a loving home as well as a faithful home.。
Our Arise community, I've been sharing the gospel to hundreds of refugees.。
Some of them came here, they are non-Christians, but they found faith right here。
in our Arise community.。
We equipped many of our refugees who are now seminary students, pastors, church leaders,。
prison ministers, community leaders, you guys name it,。
because we created this temporal home for them to learn and experience love.。
Whatever we teach our asylum seekers or we share with them,。
the truth is that when they leave Hong Kong, they will not carry this temporal home with them,。
but they will take alongside the faith that was developed, the knowledge gained,。
the friendship that they built will all last with them for a lifetime.。
They will remember your love, your care, and your compassion towards them。
and give glory to God.。
Each one of you have played a very important role in the lives of our refugees,。
and that is what we are celebrating here today.。
I would like to invite two people who will come on stage right now with me。
to share with you guys how they have been contributing to make this home。
a very wonderful place for everyone.。
One of them is living here temporarily, and the other, Hong Kong is a permanent home,。
but they believe that we all working together, we can make this home a beautiful place.。
So let me like to invite to you Mr. Nas and Mr. Benson.。
Please, can we all welcome them together on stage?。
[applause]。
Wow, I'm really excited to meet these two gentlemen.。
They have really been part of our community for a very long time.。
And I'll just dive into the discussion that we have today,。
and I really want you guys to share with our congregation,。
and also for those who are watching online,。
to understand how impactful this journey might be to everyone.。
I'm going to start with you, Mr. Nas.。
I know that you've been here for quite some time now,。
and you believe that, and you still hold that notion that Hong Kong is a temporal home for you.。
But can you share a little bit about yourself,。
and how do you see this temporal space that you are living in in Hong Kong right now?。
My name is Nasra. I'm from Egypt.。
I have been here five years.。
I came in 2016.。
Really, I learned from my life that I learned how to be in love with where I live.。
Because this is very important.。
If I feel negative feelings like frustration or depressed or disappointed,。
what can I benefit from? What can I gain?。
I can change my situation.。
But if I treat these difficulties, these obstacles, and stand on my way,。
with the mentality of courage and determination,。
I can overcome all these challenges.。
I can do something positive in my life.。
So I know that when I come here, I will face many difficulties,。
like different language, like tradition,。
like the mentality of people here is different.。
I came also from a different country.。
But I decided to overcome all these things.。
I decided to do something positive in my community.。
Thank you.。
Wow, thank you.。
Can we all give a very good hand for this beautiful word that we've heard from Mr. Nas here?。
And I will now turn to Benson.。
I know that you've really engaged a lot with the refugee program at the Branches of Hope。
and other organizations in Hong Kong.。
Maybe you give us a little bit about yourself,。
and also how do you see this permanent home, because Hong Kong is your home,。
and how do you engage with other people in this permanent home that you live in?。
Hello, good morning everyone.。
I'm Benson.。
I was born and raised in Hong Kong.。
And I pursued my higher education in the United Kingdom.。
So after spending 10 years in the UK, Singapore, I finally came back to my home in 2011.。
So to me, luckily I was involved in the Branches of Hope Chinese tuition class.。
Nas's son is one of my students.。
A very smart kid, very brilliant.。
I can see the future of Nas's kid.。
And I think in Hong Kong I'm always very careful.。
I feel that in Hong Kong, there's a lot of misconceptions about the refugee community in Hong Kong.。
And I feel that they're under-resourced.。
So that's why I hope to be part of the advocate or the one who can help this community to give them support,。
to give them emotional support.。
Sometimes I think apart from financial support, there's also some emotional support as well.。
And I think that having that companionship role, I feel that I can add some value to this community in Hong Kong.。
Wow, thank you so much.。
Can we all give a very good hand to Nas?。
That is brilliant.。
Coming to our centre, teaching our refugees.。
That is so lovely.。
Thank you for doing that for the refugees in Hong Kong.。
And so Nas, I'll come back to you again.。
I know that you've been here for like five years.。
And you've been doing a lot of things in Hong Kong that maybe we don't even know about.。
Maybe you've been engaging, trying to share your culture.。
Can you give us a little bit about how you've been contributing in Hong Kong?。
Though in your mind, I'm not living here temporarily, I have to leave someday.。
But you still have that courage and that strength to keep on contributing in Hong Kong society.。
Can you give us a little bit about that?。
Yes, before the COVID-19 pandemic, I have been teaching some Chinese group Arabic.。
These people who intend to travel to the Middle East to work as missionaries and social workers.。
And also I made some presentations in some churches and some secondary schools。
to explain Hong Kong and explain to the Hong Kong people and students a lot of the situation of refugees.。
Because actually most of Hong Kong people don't know the situation of refugees very well.。
Some of them don't know that we are not allowed to work.。
Some of them think that we have an account bank.。
Yes, some of them told me one time, "Do you have an account bank? I can give you money.。
I can put in your account bank."。
I told them, "No, it's not allowed for us. It's not allowed to work here."。
But I think that you have to be positive in your community.。
I try to help my community, my Egyptian people who come newly here, who don't know anything about Hong Kong.。
I try to go with them to the governor building.。
I try to translate for them.。
I try to tell them about the procedures they have to do.。
So you have to be effective.。
If you are being effective in your community, I think you will be effective also in the society.。
Wow, that's great. One more time again, let's hear from Nas.。
Thank you very much for all what you are doing to the community in Hong Kong.。
I'll come back to you, Mr. Benz.。
I know that you may have done a lot of things already.。
Maybe you can really share with the church and also those who are watching online,。
in the whole Hong Kong community, what you have been doing to care for this community.。
Thank you. Since March this year, I'm one of the tutors in the Branches of Hope,。
teaching kids Chinese and of course sometimes more than about Chinese.。
I'm having fun with them, playing games with them.。
I go every week, every weekend, once a week, about one to two hours a week.。
I'm looking forward to continue this commitment.。
I feel that this is something that is really a hands-on experience to understand them.。
I think in Hong Kong, a lot of people will be helping through donations.。
But I feel that it's more impactful to really have a chance to interact with Nas and his kids,。
really understand what are the challenges.。
I think through the interactions, we can give them hope, we can give them caring.。
That is something that money can't really buy, that kind of caring.。
I encourage everyone, if you have time, do volunteer with Branches of Hope.。
I'm sure there are also organizations in Hong Kong that do helping refugees.。
I hope that everyone can play a part, no matter how big, how small.。
I really hope to continue being part of this community to help the refugees in Hong Kong.。
Wonderful. Let's hear one more time for thank you very much. That's really awesome.。
Now, I just want you guys to listen to them.。
Each of you can have one minute just to look at the camera, also the community,。
those who are listening at home and those who are here with us today.。
Just tell them in one minute what is on your heart to see how to build a home together.。
First of all, I would like to thank Viney Church and thank Branches of Hope.。
And also thank Sacred Angels, who support a lot of refugees here.。
And also, I would like to tell you that diversity and difference can create a good climate。
for showing talents and skills that can benefit the society in which we live.。
This is very important. If you support refugees here, if you give them motivation,。
if you give them love, they can get out their skills from inside,。
and this will benefit the society in Hong Kong.。
I would like you to give them more love, more respect, and also more motivation and encouragement.。
Thank you.。
Thank you very much. That's wonderful.。
I'm just feeling so glad to hear this.。
So, Mr. Edmondson, maybe what would be your own last words to the Hong Kong people,。
and for those who are watching online and those who are in here today?。
Yes. For me, I feel that, first of all, thanks to Branches of Hope.。
I think they're doing so much amazing initiative, very practical.。
I can really feel it as a participant.。
So, to those who live in Hong Kong, I think, first of all, don't label refugees.。
As they mentioned, there's a lot of value that they can add to the community.。
They can benefit us as well.。
So, don't label them. Try to understand them through your own research.。
Speak to them. Work with them. Be friends with them.。
Secondly, I think, try to, of course, volunteering.。
And sometimes, remember, small gestures make a difference.。
Small gestures, you know, in a handshake, having a smile, just to greet them.。
Just little things, right? Don't ignore them.。
Try to be friends. Smile.。
I think that can give them the sense of, you know, sense of belongings and, you know, welcoming in Hong Kong.。
I think, all in all, I hope that everyone can, you know, together,。
we can make Hong Kong a much more inclusive society for all our, you know, refugees community here in Hong Kong.。
Thank you.。
Wow. Let's all give a very big hand.。
Thank you guys very much. Please, thank you. And thank you again.。
Wow. This really moves us, all of us.。
Hong Kong might be a permanent home to some of us and maybe to others a temporal home.。
Whether permanent or temporal, we could all play our part to make Hong Kong society a very important and beautiful place for everyone.。
We can all join our hands together to make this home a beautiful one to welcome and to care for the strangers.。
God understood what it takes to be in a temporal home, and he gave the Israelites this one commandment at the end of the day.。
He said to them, in Leviticus 14, 34, "The foreigners residing among you must be treated as your native born.。
Love them as you love yourself, for you were foreigners in Egypt.。
I, the Lord, your God."。
God used the word "native born."。
It reminded the Israelites to treat strangers as members of their family.。
It is our duties as followers of Christ to welcome our refugees as native born, even though it's for a period of time.。
As you saw in KK's video, you saw Chester, and you see Naz and Benson, all of them played their own role to make this Hong Kong,。
even though a temporal place for some people or a permanent place for others, to make it more inclusive and diverse.。
They have played their part.。
The question is, what is yours?。
Can we all pray together?。
Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for being with us today.。
Your love and your care and compassion have driven deep in our hearts, and we love to be together as a family.。
In your home, there is a place for everyone, big, small, young, old, refugee or non-refugee.。
And here in Hong Kong, we want to create that space for everyone, that we can all live together in harmony, love, joy, and peace.。
And with that, oh Lord, speak to us individually, that we could do what you've called us to do.。
We pray in Jesus' name. Can we all say?。
