Okay, now here we go. Apparently, I turned it off. Come on, production! Oh, wait, it。
was me, sorry. All right, hey, when I was 14 years old, I experienced fear at night,。
and I wasn't able to sleep well. And part of the reason for that was that at night time,。
I saw grimacing faces, and I experienced an evil presence. Now, I didn't really know what。
to do with that. I grew up in a Christian home. I wasn't a Christian at the time. Just。
because you grew up in a Christian home doesn't mean you're a Christian. And so I went to。
my parents, and I told them, "Hey, this is what's going on. What do I do? Can you help。
me?" Well, even though they were Christians, they actually had never experienced anything。
like this, so they didn't really know how to help me. So I also didn't want to talk。
to my friends. My friends, actually, at that time, I didn't really talk about spiritual。
stuff with my friends. We just did other things. And I also didn't want them to think that。
I was somehow crazy. So I was really isolated and on my own in this experience. Now, this。
went on for a year, and it really started weighing on me. I was worn out. The fear increased.。
Now, instead of just experiencing things at night, I was experiencing during the day as。
well. So I reached a point, and I remember saying this to myself, "If life is like this,。
I'm not sure if I want to live." This was my cry, my longing for healing, what we've。
been talking about. Now, I didn't use those words, but I was like, "I just want to be。
well. I just want to have peace. This is just too much to bear." Now, we all, at one point。
or another in our lives, are confronted with evil. In my case, it was demonic oppression.。
That's what I was experiencing. I just didn't know exactly, didn't understand everything。
exactly. Now, for others, it might be addictions. Maybe there's addictions to alcohol. Maybe。
there's addictions to drugs, to pornography, to sex, to pain medication. It can be many。
different things. For others, it might be unhealthy emotional relationships where we。
find ourselves in relationships that we know we shouldn't be in, but for whatever reason,。
we are stuck, and we just cannot move out of those relationships. So it can be many。
different ways and different things for different people. You can fill in the blank. Now, our。
sins in our lives are footholds for evil that enslave us. Satan and his minions shame us,。
dehumanize us, puts us down, and his desire is to bring destruction into our life, destruction。
into your relationships, and to mess up your life, to make you an ineffective Christian。
if you're a Christian here. That's on his agenda. So what I want to explore with you。
is how can I overcome evil in my life? How can I break free from patterns of sin that,。
for whatever reason, I'm stuck in, and besides my own choices, there's something else going。
on. Evil is working in them, pushing me down, tempting me, whatever it is. I'm in bondage,。
and I'm not able to be free. So how can I experience freedom from all these things?。
I love the worship. Today was so fitting. Freedom reigns in this place. We spoke Jesus。
over each other. Well, that's what this message is about. Now, today is our final message。
in our Longing for Healing series. I don't know about you. I've enjoyed it. God has met。
me myself in this time. We've heard from some of you how God has been bringing healing and。
doing something new in your life, and we've been so encouraged, so praise Jesus for that.。
And I hope that this has been helpful for you on your journey of healing, because we。
mentioned at the beginning of this sermon series, every single person is on a journey。
of healing, because Jesus is not finished with us yet. He's still at work in our lives,。
and we need it. So how has it been? I would love to hear. Good? Yeah? All right. Thanks,。
man. He's like, you know, we didn't pay him. He's just supportive. You know, right here.。
Come on. Now, we're in the book of Mark today, and before I set the context for our passage,。
let me... Actually, before we go into our passage, let me set the context for our passage。
so that way. Jesus is crossing with the disciples of the Sea of Galilee, and there is this incredible。
storm, life-threatening storm, and Jesus commands the wind and the waves to be still. And the。
crazy thing is, it actually happens. The wind and the waves become quiet. Now, the disciples。
are afraid, and all of this raises the question, who is this Jesus? And the story, or this。
episode from Jesus' life, it shows that Jesus has authority over nature, because he is God。
with us. And he was part of creation where he spoke, and it was made. And so that's why。
Jesus can command and has authority over nature. So this is what happens. Absolutely incredible.。
Now we pick up where they land on shore. So we're in Mark 5, verses 1 through 5. That's。
where we're going to start with. It says this, "They went across the lake to the region of。
Gerizim. When Jesus got out of the boat, a man with an impure spirit came from the tombs。
to meet him. This man lived in the tombs, and no one could bind him anymore, not even。
with a chain, for he had often been chained hand and foot, but he tore the chains apart。
and broke the irons on his feet. No one was strong enough to subdue him. Night and day。
among the tombs and in the hills, he would cry out and cut himself with stones." So the。
disciples and Jesus, they just arrived. The first thing that happens is that a man approaches。
them. We learn that he has an unclean spirit, that he lives among the tombs, which Jewish。
people also considered unclean. So this is like unclean squared. So we know something。
is happening. Something is up. We are told that the community, they had tried to bind。
him. They had chained it up with metal chains. They had put on iron shackles on his feet,。
but the man managed to break himself free. Now this is strength beyond human strength.。
Again something is going on. In verse 3 it says this, "No one could bind him anymore,。
not even with a chain." So it sounds like things got progressively worse. In verse 4。
it repeats that. It says, "No one was strong enough to subdue him." Now the Greek word。
for subdue, damazo, can also be translated as tame or control. Now this is strange, right?。
Tame. And that's actually probably the preferred way of translating this. That no one could。
tame him. Now this is referring to a human being. We don't usually talk about taming。
human beings. We talk about taming wild animals. But this man was running wild and people,。
the community, was trying to tame him. Now there's two observations I want to make for。
this. First, this speaks of the destructive nature of the evil spirits that were possessing。
this man. That he was running wild like this, causing harm. And second, the use of the word。
tame shows that people have stopped seeing him as a human being. He is excluded and treated。
as an outcast from society. They describe him as an animal. Now in verse 5 we're told,。
"Night and day among the tombs and in the hills he would cry out and cut himself with。
stones." Now this is a 24/7 thing. Just think of that. 24/7 this man is crying out and cutting。
himself with stones. It's not like he did this one time. He does this day in and day。
out. So we see that this demonic possession is destructive. It's tearing this man apart.。
Now I used to lead a community group in the US in my home and there was two people there。
that were experiencing homelessness. They were part of the community group. And so one。
night I don't remember exactly the circumstances. Somehow I was with some of them on the go。
and then we were dropping off one of the homeless men at the shelter that he lived in. And so。
when we were coming back from dropping him off and we had parked, brought him, walking。
back, a man comes up to my friend and in a growling voice says, "Give me your money."。
My friend was like, "I'm not going to give you any money." So then this guy goes to a。
fence and he breaks off a metal bar and points it out and says, "Give me your money." And。
my friend was trying to show his manhood and was trying to be a tough guy, you know, standing。
there like... And I was like, "Let's go. Time to leave. Time to get out of here." Now what's。
interesting as I was remembering this episode in preparation for this message, my only response。
to that man was that I saw him as a homeless person, as somebody who was using drugs, and。
as somebody who was demon possessed. That's where it stopped for me. But as a reading。
about the circumstances of this man and Mark and just how horrible all this must be for。
a human being, what I missed was that this homeless man was a person that God loves and。
that Jesus wants to set free. Jesus, when he started his ministry, he said that he has。
come to set the captives free. That's Jesus' mission. That's what he's doing. That's why。
he has come. And then in John 10, it says, "The thief comes only to steal, kill, and。
destroy. I have come that they may have life and have it to the full." The devil's aim。
is to destroy people. But Jesus has come to give people life to the full. That's what。
Jesus does. That's why he has come. And he wants us as people to be people who bring。
this hope and this good news that there is life to the full in Jesus to other people,。
even when on the outside they might initially scare us. Now, one thing the enemy does is。
when it comes to spiritual oppression, addiction, bondage, is lie to us that it is hopeless.。
You will never break free from your alcohol addiction. You will never change. When I was。
14, I was experiencing all this. The lie was, "Things will never change. You will always。
live in fear." And I started to believe it because it was already going on for a year.。
Now, Jesus in the Gospel of John, John 8, verse 44, you can look it up. He talks about。
that Satan is a liar and a deceiver. So part of his work in our lives is that he lies to。
you and he deceives you. He wants you to be hopeless about what's going on because he。
wants to keep you captive. He wants to keep you in bondage. He does not want you to be。
free. He does not want you to experience Jesus in your life. So the enemy wants to keep you。
under oppression, addiction, and bondage because he is out to destroy, shame, dehumanize you.。
His goal is to keep you from having a personal relationship with God and from living the。
life God has for you. That's what he's trying to undermine. And he does that both in non-Christian。
lives and also in Christian lives. So I just wondered, what are some of the lies of the。
enemy that we are believing in this room here today? You're never going to change. You will。
never break free from this. But the good news is that Jesus can set you free. He has the。
power and authority to bring freedom, wholeness, goodness in your life where you are not able。
to do it. We've tried. I tried when I was young. I tried to somehow fight whatever this。
thing that was going on, but I couldn't do anything. It's by the power of Jesus that。
we are set free, that we gain victory. Let's continue in Mark 5 and verse 6. It says, "When。
he saw Jesus from a distance, he ran and fell on his knees in front of him. He shouted at。
the top of his voice, 'What do you want with me? Jesus, son of the most high God, in God's。
name, don't torture me.' For Jesus had said to him, 'Come out of this man, you impure。
spirit.' Then Jesus asked him, 'What is your name?' 'My name is Legion,' he replied, 'for。
we are many.' And he begged Jesus again and again not to send him out of the area. A large。
herd of pigs was feeding on the nearby hillside. The demons begged Jesus, 'Send us among the。
pigs. Allow us to go into them.' He gave them permission and the impure spirits came out。
and went into the pigs. The herd, about 2,000 number, rushed down the steep bank into the。
lake and were drowned." So when Jesus asked this man, "What is your name?" Or addressing。
the evil spirits, he said, "My name is Legion, for we are many." Now, Legion was a Roman。
military term. It consists of 6,000 troops. The point is, this was massive. The oppression。
that this man was experiencing was massive. This implies that... Well, actually, I already。
said that. So let me make two observations about this. First, since Jesus casts out the。
demons, it demonstrates that even a multitude of demons, they cannot stand against Jesus.。
Jesus has the authority and the power over any evil force because he has won the victory。
on the cross. Satan and his enemies have been disarmed when Jesus died and rose. And then。
also in the book of Revelation, you can read about how ultimately there will be final judgment。
on Satan. He will be thrown into the lake of fire and will be banned there forever.。
And so Jesus has the authority to set people free. And what's interesting is the demons。
know that, but people in the Gospel of Mark don't know that a lot of times. Because the。
demons themselves say, "Jesus, son of the most high God," in verse 7. They know. So。
Jesus casts out the demons, sets the man free, demonstrates that he has authority over evil.。
Now the second thing that I want to highlight from this militaristic language of Legion,。
it points to the fact that there is a spiritual battle raging. Now the New Testament assumes。
that. And if you're familiar with the Bible and you read it, you can learn about that.。
So for example, Paul in this letter to Ephesians, he's writing to Christians and he says this,。
Ephesians 6, verse 12, "For a struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the。
rulers, against authorities, against the powers of the stark world, and against the spiritual。
forces of evil in the heavenly realms." So this is the reality we find ourselves in.。
Even as Christians, this is what's going on. And C.S. Lewis, a well-known author from the。
past, he says this, commenting on spiritual warfare and battles, "There are two equal。
and opposite errors into which our race can fall about the devils. One is the disbelief。
in their existence. The other is to believe and to feel an excessive and unhealthy interest。
in them. They themselves are equally pleased with both." So on the one hand, there's disbelief.。
Where I grew up, scientific, Western Germany, most of my friends do not believe in evil。
spirits or any of that. But as Christians, if we are leaning in that direction or don't。
think about it much, we actually should not be unaware. The Bible teaches about it. We。
should learn what God's word has to teach about it so that we understand our enemy,。
understand how he works. So that's the first thing. Disbelief is not helpful. If you don't。
understand your enemy, it's like you're very vulnerable, right? So we don't want to be。
vulnerable. We want to just very basically understand what does God's word teach about。
evil. And I think the most important thing is I'll just say here is that Jesus has defeated。
evil and in Jesus you have victory. So let's just be very clear about this. Now, the second。
thing is an excessive interest in evil. Now, when I was younger, I was in circles where。
people were obsessed with all those things and their focus was really on the wrong thing,。
which was on all the evil and all that stuff. While we should be aware that a spiritual。
war is being fought, our focus should be on Christ, his victory, and how we can live in。
that victory that Jesus has won for us. And if we do that, actually what that leads us。
in is that we become faithful disciples of Jesus. And faithful disciples of Jesus, what。
they do is they love people, they serve people, they share the good news about Jesus, they。
advance the kingdom of heaven, the kingdom of God through their discipleship. And so。
when we do that, the kingdom of darkness recedes and the kingdom of God advances. So that's。
what we focus on. We focus on advancing the kingdom of God and sharing the gospel and。
following Jesus and living in his victory. That's our focus. Now, by casting out the。
demon and setting man free, Jesus advances the kingdom of God and Jesus is saving and。
healing work in a man's life in a non-Jewish territory, a Gentile territory, and actually。
also foreshadows that his delivering and his healing work is for all peoples, not just。
for Jewish people, for Israelites, but for all people because they were outside of that。
region. So this is important. This is for everyone here. Let's continue in Mark, verse。
14, it says, "Those tending the pigs ran off and reported this in the town and countryside,。
and the people went out to see what had happened. When they came to Jesus, they saw the man。
who had been possessed by a legion of demons sitting there, dressed and in his right mind,。
and they were afraid. Those who had seen it told the people what had happened to the demon-possessed。
man and told about the pigs as well. Then the people began to plead with Jesus to leave。
their region. As Jesus was getting into the boat, the man who had been demon-possessed。
begged to him to go with him. Jesus did not let him, but said, 'Go home to your own people。
and tell them how much the Lord has done for you, and how he has had mercy on you.' So。
the man went away and began to tell the Decapolis how much Jesus had done for him, and all the。
people were amazed." Now here we see two different responses of different people. There's the。
townspeople and there's the response of the man who's been set free. So let's look at。
the townspeople and their response first. So in verse 15 it said this, "When they came。
to Jesus, they saw the man who had been possessed by the demon, and he was sitting there, dressed。
and in his right mind, and that they were afraid." Now just picture this. I grew up。
in a little village in Germany, 5,000 people. It's like one building complex here, right?。
Now in our area, everyone knows people like this man. Whether it's a homeless man, whether。
it's somebody who has mental health issues, whether somebody has demon possession, whatever。
is going on, the villagers around all know. And so they knew this man. And now they see。
him sitting there in his right mind. They had tried to chain him up. They had tried。
to tame him like an animal. And now suddenly Jesus has come along. He just speaks a word.。
He doesn't fight or tries to tie him up. He just speaks a word. And this man is in his。
right mind and he's set free. This is incredible. This is absolutely incredible. And again,。
it just points to the authority and the power of Jesus. But we are told that the townspeople,。
they were afraid. Now that's quite normal when we experience the awesome and awe-inspiring。
power of God. That's a normal reaction. The disciples in the episode before, they also。
were afraid. But what's interesting is that in other parts of the gospel, when you read。
that people are, that Jesus drives out demons and heals the sick, other people bring people。
to Jesus for healing. They bring demon-possessed people because they want their neighbor, they。
want their person in a town or village that they know, they want them to be free. They。
want their friend who needs healing to be healed. But this is not what they do. It says。
that they begged Jesus to leave the area. Now why is that? Now some biblical scholars,。
they focus on the money. 2,000 pigs was a lot of cash. And so the theory is they were。
afraid of more financial loss, so they wanted Jesus to leave. That that was their focus.。
Now I believe there's some truth to it, but I don't believe it's everything. So I want。
to frame this in a little bit of a broader way. The townspeople are choosing comfort。
and status quo over change in their lives. I think that is really what's going on. And。
part of that is also the finances. So they're choosing comfort and status quo over change。
in their lives. In the gospel of John 3.19, it says this, "This is the verdict. Light。
has come into the world, but people loved darkness instead of light because their deeds。
were evil." So people are comfortable with their lives, and they don't want anything。
to change. They prefer darkness to saving, healing, delivering work of Jesus. Comfort,。
maintaining your status quo is an idol, and it's often important to the people that God's。
-- it's often more important to people than God's kingdom breaking into their lives and。
oppressed people being set free and restored. Now, comfort can also be an idol for Christians.。
That not Jesus is at the center, as we, I believe, also sang earlier in some way or。
form, but that comfort is at the center. That we don't want God to disrupt our life. We。
want a little bit of Jesus, but we don't want all of Jesus. Sometimes comfort also has to。
do is that we're -- that our comfort place is actually a place where we're living in。
sin and doing what we knowingly know is wrong against God, against God's will for our lives.。
And we find comfort in that place, that place of pleasure and sin, and we don't really want。
that to change. We're actually quite happy there, or so at least we think. But a problem。
is when we get comfortable with our sin, we give Satan a foothold in our lives. And he。
seeks to enslave you. He seeks to destroy you. He seeks to bring havoc into your relationships。
and destroy them. That's what happens. And he wants to make you ineffective for God's。
kingdom. So I just wonder, is there an area in your life where you have chosen the comfort。
of sin over what Jesus asks you to do? Let me say this again. Is there an area in your。
life where you have chosen the comfort of sin over what Jesus asks you to do? Now Jesus。
is calling you out of that place today. He's calling you to repentance and to turn to him。
and to surrender and submit that part, whatever that is, to him. And I'm not shaming. This。
is part of every Christian's journey. But if you're living there right now, Jesus is。
calling you out of that place. Don't give Satan a foothold in your life. Don't do it.。
He just brings destruction. This dehumanizes you, messes up your relationships, messes。
up your life, makes you ineffective for the kingdom. Well, let's look at how the man reacts。
to Jesus delivering him from the evil spirit. So we looked at the townspeople. They chose。
comfort. They didn't want anything to change. They wanted Jesus to leave. They didn't want。
Jesus' transformative power working in their lives. Now let's look at how the man responds.。
Well he is, it's a striking contrast. He begs to be with Jesus, to go with him. In other。
words, he wants to be his disciple. He wants to follow Jesus. He wants to be part of what。
Jesus is doing because the work that he's done is amazing. Finally, after what this。
grueling existence before, howling day and night, cutting himself, being, experiencing。
demonic possession, he is free. But interestingly enough, Jesus does not grant his request.。
What? Because Jesus actually has something more important and something better for him.。
He actually sends him out as his disciple into, back to his hometown. So in verse 19。
it said, "Go home to your own people and tell them how much the Lord has done for you and。
how he has had mercy on you." Jesus sends him out to share what God has done in his。
life with the people he lives with, with the people he works, with his family that he probably。
hasn't seen in a long time. And then we're told as he does that, that people were amazed。
at his testimony. Because again, everyone knows him and they can see the change that。
has happened in his life. And now Jesus sends him out to bring that same change into other。
people's lives. Also interesting, Jesus doesn't go tell him, "Go fight evil spirits," even。
though that might be part of advancing the kingdom. But he tells him to go tell others。
your testimony of what Jesus has done. So again, the focus is on Jesus. Now this is。
a very fitting word for us at the end of our sermon series, Longing for Healing. When we。
experience the healing and saving work of Jesus, it is not meant to be kept to ourselves.。
Instead like this man that Jesus had delivered from evil spirits, Jesus sends us to go out。
to our families, our friends, our coworkers, our neighbors, and to testify to the healing。
and saving work that he has done in our lives. Our healing is not meant to be a dead end.。
Jesus is healed so we can be part of this healing work in this world. Now I just wonder。
who here is saying, "I want to go. I want to do this." Because that's your choice. That's。
my heart for us as a church, a church that goes, that wants to tell others about what。
Jesus is doing in our lives. Now at the beginning of the message, we asked the question, "How。
can I have victory over evil in my life? How can I experience freedom from patterns of。
sin and bondage and oppression that I'm experiencing in my life?" Now I actually never finished。
my story of when I was 14 years old. Again, I was not a Christian. I was living in fear.。
I was hopeless or getting to that point, not wanting to live like this, just wanting peace.。
And so out of desperation, I talked to my father again. Remember the first time was。
not helpful, but I was like, "I don't know what else to do." So I talked to my father.。
And this time he asked me, "Tim, have you placed your trust in Jesus?" And I hadn't.。
Even though I grew up in a Christian family, had millions of opportunities, I never did。
it. There was pride for whatever reason. I just didn't want to do it. And so that night,。
and I don't remember exactly how, I just called out to Jesus for help. "Help me, Jesus. Come。
into my life." And you know what was amazing? Those grimacing faces, they disappeared that。
night and I was able to sleep. And I finally had this peace that I was longing for. And。
this was so powerful. This is my coming to know Jesus experience. This was so powerful。
that since that point in that age, I know that Jesus has the power and authority to。
set people free because it's my story and I'm testifying to it. Now, Colossians 1:13。
had become true for me. It says this, "For he has rescued us from the dominion of darkness。
and brought us into the kingdom of the son he loves." So Jesus had rescued me from the。
dominion of darkness and brought me into his kingdom, into a relationship with him. And。
in Jesus, this victory over evil is available to everyone who turns to Jesus. It's available。
to everyone. I want to invite the worship team to come up right now. Jesus died on the。
cross and rose from the dead to rescue and redeem us so that we can be set free from。
anything that binds us and that we can be brought into his kingdom where there is forgiveness,。
freedom, life, and salvation. So the most important step to overcome evil in your life。
is by becoming a Christian and experiencing the victory that is there in Jesus. So if。
you would like to take the step, like I did when I was 14 years old, where I said, "I。
need help, Jesus. I want you to come into my life." I want to invite you right now to。
give me a little sign from your hand that you want to do that. I'm going to pray a prayer。
where you can pray this prayer. And that's the way of inviting Jesus, inviting the Holy。
Spirit into your life and receiving the victory and the life to the fullest that Jesus has。
for you. So to encourage those who are going to be praying this prayer and following along,。
I want to actually invite everyone to pray this prayer after me. So let's pray. Jesus,。
I need help. I'm tired of fighting these battles on my own. I'm sorry for all the wrong that。
I have done. Please forgive me. Thank you, Jesus, that you died on the cross for me and。
that you rose so that my sins can be forgiven and I can receive the gift of new life in。
you. Thank you that in you, Jesus, I can experience victory over evil. Please come into my life,。
fill me with your Holy Spirit and give me your peace. Amen. Now, if you pray this prayer,。
you are a Christian now if you weren't before and the Holy Spirit indwells you. You get。
to share in the victory that Jesus has won over evil and you no longer need to give in。
to sin and into the works of the enemy. You can call on Jesus and he can give you the。
strength and the grace to overcome whatever is going on in your life. So praise God for。
his work there. Now, for those of us who are Christian, I also mentioned that at times。
we give Satan footholds in our lives. And we do this in different ways, whether it's。
giving in to some sin and getting stuck in addiction, we experience demonic oppression,。
maybe there's unhealthy relationships that we just can't get out of, can be many different。
things. And if you find yourself right now battling evil and there's just something going。
on where you are not able to break free on your own, I want to encourage you to stretch。
out your hands before you. And I want to share a verse with you. It says from James 4, 7。
says to submit yourself then to God, resist the devil and he will flee from you. And so。
you're expressing that like, Lord, I submit to you. I desire for you to meet me in this。
area of my life where I'm just stuck in this pattern that is destructive. And I don't want。
to be stuck in that anymore. And I actually want to invite the people around you to see。
somebody stretching out their hands. I want to invite people around you to actually go。
and to pray for them. So let's do this right now for a few minutes as we do often here。
at the Vine and then I'll pray for us. Let's do this right now.。
Somebody sitting around you. Don't let them just sit there with their hands stretched。
out, but go and pray for them.。
[Praying]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
