- Good morning.。
- And good morning to all of those。
who are joining online today.。
As Carla just said, we started a new series last week。
on the Holy Spirit, and I loved how Andrew focused in on。
and reminded us that the Holy Spirit is a person.。
And the Holy Spirit is a person whose role,。
since the very beginning of creation,。
has always been to bring order out of disorder.。
That beautiful picture in Genesis of the Holy Spirit。
hovering over the darkness and the chaos,。
ready to bring things fully alive.。
And now, for those of us who've chosen Jesus,。
He's at work within us.。
The Holy Spirit willing and ready to move us out of darkness,。
to shape our chaos into the fullness。
of what we were intended to be.。
Today, we're going to explore the comfort。
and the conviction of the Holy Spirit.。
John 14, verses 16 to 17 says,。
"And I will pray the Father,。
"and He will give you another helper,。
"and He may abide with you forever,。
"the Spirit of truth,。
"whom the world cannot receive。
"because it neither sees Him nor knows Him,。
"but you know Him, for He dwells with you。
"and will be in you."。
John 14, verse 26 says, "But the helper,。
"the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name,。
"He will teach you all things,。
"and bring to your remembrance。
"all things that I said to you."。
And then in John 16, verses seven to eight, it says,。
"Nevertheless, I tell you the truth.。
"It is to your advantage that I go away.。
"For if I do not go away, the helper will not come to you.。
"But if I depart, I will send him to you,。
"and when he has come, he will convict the world of sin,。
"of righteousness, and of judgment."。
All three verses use the word helper。
to describe the Holy Spirit.。
The Greek word is parakletos,。
which translates as comforter or advocate.。
Someone who is called or sent to assist another.。
Someone who pleads the cause of another.。
Someone who's present to render various beneficial services.。
John would later, in 1 John 2, 1,。
use the very same word, parakletos, to describe Jesus.。
This connection has meaning.。
Jesus' words in John 16, seven to eight,。
tell us that Jesus is leaving behind his earthly ministry,。
specifically so the Holy Spirit can act.。
The Holy Spirit, in a sense, does from the inside。
what Christ was doing from the outside with his disciples.。
Teaching, convicting, reminding, comforting, and guiding.。
Let's unpack these verses.。
Sometimes, if you've been a Christian for a little while,。
it's easy to gloss over these verses。
and miss the enormity of what is taking place here.。
John 14, 16 to seven, teaches us。
that the Holy Spirit is given to us by the Father.。
That he will abide in us forever.。
He will dwell with us.。
He will be in us.。
If you believe in Jesus,。
if you've recognised your need of his saving love,。
and have chosen to give him your life,。
you have been given the gift。
of the Holy Spirit from the Father.。
The Holy Spirit is living within you.。
And this verse tells us that he will never leave you.。
He will abide with you forever.。
This Greek word abide, meno, means to remain,。
to stay, to continue to exist.。
And I love this last word.。
It means to persist.。
I don't know about you,。
but I'm glad I have someone dwelling with me。
who persists with me and doesn't give up on me.。
Jesus said, "It's to your advantage that I go away."。
Let's think about that for a minute.。
Jesus is saying that we get a better deal。
if he leaves and the Holy Spirit comes.。
It's to our advantage.。
I'm sure the disciples who were listening to this。
would have been thinking, "That just can't be right."。
How can it be better if you go?。
How can it be better if you go?。
You see, as long as Jesus was there in person,。
the object of the disciples' faith。
would always be a tangible, external person.。
Now, that's not necessarily bad.。
However, it means that they would have constantly。
depended on him to direct them to answer their questions.。
Their own thoughts and conscience。
would be perpetually pushed aside。
in favor of asking Jesus for his judgment。
and what he thought.。
When he was not physically present with them,。
they would have felt incomplete.。
In short, Jesus' physical presence, in some sense,。
limited the depth of the disciples' reliance on God.。
It limited also how many people。
Jesus could influence at once.。
The Holy Spirit, on the other hand,。
completely fulfills the prophecy that's given in Jeremiah 31.。
It says, "Behold, the days are coming," declares the Lord,。
"when I will make a new covenant。
"with the house of Israel and the house of Judah.。
"I will put my law within them,。
"and I will write it on their hearts.。
"And I will be their God, they'll be my people.。
"And no longer shall each one teach his neighbor。
"and each his brother saying, 'Know the Lord,'。
"for they shall all know me.。
"From the least of them to the greatest," declares the Lord,。
"for I will forgive their iniquity,。
"and I will remember their sin no more."。
The Holy Spirit, the helper,。
provides the ability for each of us。
to have a constant, a personal,。
an immediate, and indwelling contact with God.。
Instead of relying on someone outside of ourselves,。
believers in Christ can focus on the voice of God inside,。
inside their hearts as he dwells with them.。
Now, this doesn't make us infallible or all-knowing.。
It does mean that we have the advantage of his influence。
so far as we're willing to submit to it.。
Paul puts it like this,。
"Our bodies have now become the temple of the Holy Spirit."。
So as our helper, the Holy Spirit has this dual purpose。
to both comfort and convict.。
These words may seem to be opposites,。
but in fact, they can be intertwined.。
The conviction of the Holy Spirit in our response。
leads to his comfort。
and the work of his comfort in our lives.。
A key thing to really note here is。
we can carry the Holy Spirit within us,。
and he will be actively working。
to both convict and comfort us.。
But it only works if we're listening.。
It only works if we're responding and submitting to him.。
It's also important to note。
that the comforting work of the Spirit。
isn't always connected to conviction.。
Sometimes he comforts us because we're brokenhearted,。
or we've experienced loss, or we're lonely,。
or sometimes he brings his comfort。
through us for somebody else.。
After one of the Sunday messages,。
I was having lunch across the road here。
in the little Malaysian place,。
'cause I love their rendang there,。
just a bit of a shout out.。
And I happened to be there by myself.。
Normally I'm having lunch with my family,。
but on this day I was by myself.。
And I'm just sitting there eating my lunch,。
and I'm getting ready about to stand up。
and go pay for my meal.。
And the Holy Spirit just said,。
"You see that lady next to you?。
And I looked over,。
and I could tell it was one of our helpers,。
you know, like somebody who is a domestic worker。
working in Hong Kong, Sunday being their day off.。
She was sitting there relaxing, looking at her phone.。
Her bill for her dinner was just sitting on the table,。
and the Holy Spirit said, "Pay for her dinner."。
And I was like,。
the paying part wasn't the issue,。
the part was I didn't know this person,。
she was a stranger.。
And for a moment I really wrestled,。
'cause I thought I'm gonna be embarrassed,。
like talking to a complete stranger and saying,。
"Oh, can I pay for your dinner?"。
And I wrestled for quite a while,。
I sat there and I was like, "Mm."。
But eventually I gave in, I stood up,。
and as I passed this woman's table I said,。
"Is it all right if I pay for your meal today?"。
She kind of looked at me like in shock,。
and I actually picked it up off the table。
and started walking towards the cashier.。
And she sort of got up and started following me.。
It was very awkward.。
And she said to me, "But why, why, why?"。
And I could have given her a whole Christian thing,。
I didn't.。
I just said, "Just because, 'cause I can."。
And she said to me, "Can I give you a hug?"。
The Holy Spirit was doing that not for my benefit,。
he was comforting her, he was bringing her to a place,。
even though she was giving me a hug,。
she, it was like the Holy Spirit was hugging her。
and letting her know that she was seen.。
So sometimes the Holy Spirit works his comfort through us。
if we're willing to listen, and not just listen but obey.。
Let's look at the convicting work of the Holy Spirit.。
Jesus said, "The Holy Spirit will teach you all things。
"and bring to your remembrance all the things I said to you.。
"He will convict the world of sin。
"and of righteousness and of judgment."。
Let me give you an example of the convicting work。
of the Holy Spirit.。
When I was a teenager, my mum and dad made it clear。
that they did not want me dating until I was 16 years old.。
And they wanted me to choose someone。
who held similar Christian values.。
They would always tell me about that whole。
unevenly yoked thing, you know?。
The oxen pulling the plow and how they'd put the harness。
over the shoulders, and if the oxen weren't the same height,。
one of the oxen would carry more of the load.。
And they would always tell me, you know,。
if you go out with someone who doesn't share。
the same values, it's gonna be like that.。
There's gonna be times when you're gonna feel。
under pressure, and things are not gonna work out so well.。
Well, there were a number of times I broke these rules.。
In fact, my first boyfriend was when I was 11.。
Nowhere near the 16 years of age.。
But you know, every time without fail,。
I would be convicted by the Holy Spirit.。
I remember once I was sitting in the backseat of a car。
holding a boy's hand, and my stomach was churning.。
I can remember literally feeling physically ill.。
And I could hear a very persistent voice in my head。
saying, "This is not okay.。
"This is not the right person for you.。
"You need to end this."。
This didn't just happen once.。
I'm a slow learner.。
It happened many times.。
And I became aware at these moments。
that my parents were praying for me.。
And this is a good time to just encourage。
all the parents here.。
Do not stop praying for your children.。
The Holy Spirit is at work even when you are not around.。
You know, I would experience no peace。
until I relented and I responded。
and I ended the relationship.。
Recently, I've been joking around。
with my teaching partner at school.。
And I made some comments about a staff member.。
The next morning, driving to school, having a quiet time,。
the Holy Spirit convicted me of this conversation.。
He reminded me of who he was calling me to be,。
a person of encouragement.。
And he encouraged me to speak to my teaching partner。
when I got to school,。
to apologize to her and tell her。
that I shouldn't have been talking。
about this person behind her back.。
And that from now on, I was going to endeavor。
to not do that again.。
The Holy Spirit reminds us of the person。
we are meant to be.。
He convicts us of sin and righteousness.。
He reminds us of the right way to live.。
As Andrew explained to us last week,。
the Holy Spirit has that great purpose。
of bringing something from disorder to order in our lives.。
And one of the key ways he does this。
is through his conviction.。
He helps us to recognize when we are not living。
as the person he's created us to be.。
When we believe in and accept Jesus as our Savior,。
he covers us with his righteousness.。
He covers us with his goodness.。
The Holy Spirit holds us accountable.。
He reminds us that we are sons and daughters of God。
and we are called to reflect his light。
and goodness in the world.。
The conviction of the Holy Spirit only works,。
as I said before, if we listen and respond to it.。
You see, the more we hear and we don't respond,。
the duller the voice of the Holy Spirit gets.。
Eventually we'll reach a point where we won't hear at all.。
Ezekiel 12, two describes this.。
Son of man, you dwell in the midst of a rebellious house,。
which has eyes to see but does not see,。
and ears to hear but does not hear.。
For they are a rebellious house.。
Many of us have stopped listening for many reasons,。
but mostly because we don't want to respond。
to what we hear.。
You see, it's easier making our own choices。
and living the way we want to live.。
But James warns us about what happens。
when we live like this.。
James 1, verses 23 to 24 says,。
if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer,。
he is like a man observing his natural face in a mirror.。
For he observes himself, he goes away,。
and he immediately forgets what kind of man he was.。
You see, when we stop listening and responding。
to the voice and the work of the Holy Spirit,。
we forget what kind of person we are meant to be,。
and we lose our true identity.。
Now we're going to speak about the comfort。
of the Holy Spirit.。
The Holy Spirit assists us, he counsels us,。
he advocates for us.。
As I was preparing this sermon,。
I was reminded of this moment in my life.。
I was 17 and my boyfriend had just broken up with me.。
Seems to be a theme this morning,。
doesn't it, all my boyfriend stories?。
But this one, he had broken up with me,。
and I had been going out with him for a year and a half,。
it wasn't just a month or something,。
and I sincerely thought that we would continue。
and eventually one day get married.。
I was sitting on my bed and I was experiencing。
inconsolable grief.。
And my father walked into the room,。
he sat down beside me on my bed,。
he put his arm around me and he said three words.。
It's his loss.。
It's his loss.。
I'll never forget that moment.。
The comfort and belief I received from those three words.。
It was like my dad restored my value.。
He helped me to see myself through his eyes.。
This is what the Holy Spirit does for us.。
The Holy Spirit restores our value.。
And he helps us to see ourselves truly。
as we were created to be.。
Some of you here today,。
you are going through big and difficult things.。
20 years ago, my husband, Glenn, and I,。
we moved to Darwin in Australia.。
Our friends had gone to pastor there,。
and they asked us to join them.。
And at first we said, no.。
If you know where Darwin is,。
it's like the northwest tip up the top of Australia.。
It is isolated.。
You've either got to drive 24 hours to get somewhere。
or you fly.。
Like it is the back of beyond.。
And so when they said this,。
our pastor friend Darren, he actually,。
"I had a dream about you and you were in Darwin."。
And we were like, no, no, no, no, no.。
That can't be right.。
However, we respected them enough to go and visit them.。
So we went and we visited.。
And while we were there, both my husband and I,。
I remember we were driving in the car,。
heading out to one of the national parks.。
And I said, "Oh, what are you thinking?"。
And he said, "I think we're meant to be here."。
And I went, "Yeah, me too."。
So we packed up our four kids and we moved to Darwin.。
And we actually lived with Darren and Kim。
for a number of weeks because we were searching。
for a house to rent.。
And it took some time.。
And I remember we had meals with them.。
Darren loved to cook on the barbecues.。
So we'd sit outside beside their pool。
and we'd barbecue together and have meals.。
And it was a really beautiful time.。
We'd only been in Darwin six months.。
And our pastor, our friend, our mentor, Darren,。
was killed in a car crash.。
In fact, he had just been with my husband.。
Darren had visited him where my husband worked。
and they'd chatted.。
He'd given Glenn a hug, hopped into his car,。
and about a kilometre away was hit by a big truck。
that just flattened the car.。
And I remember going to Kim's house that night。
and sitting on her bed.。
And we were just weeping together.。
And then she said,。
"God must have something pretty amazing planned。
"to come out of all of this."。
The gentle whispers and encouragement of the Holy Spirit,。
it didn't alter the heart-wrenching loss。
and it didn't change the circumstances.。
But I remember in the weeks and months that followed,。
months that should have been filled with chaos and despair,。
instead were filled with comfort.。
And we were given the strength and grace to lean in。
instead of lean away.。
We experienced, the church there experienced。
the deep levels of comfort that held us and carried us.。
Andrew spoke last week of leaning into the person。
and the work of the Holy Spirit.。
In the last church-wide prayer and worship night。
that we held here,。
a word was given to us,。
a picture of what the Holy Spirit is doing amongst us.。
The picture was of a heart that had become hardened.。
It was encased in stone.。
But then the stone began to crack。
and it looked like eggshell.。
And then the work of the Holy Spirit came like water,。
coming and lifting the stone and washing it away.。
And as it did that, it revealed the red beating hearts。
of who we are truly meant to be,。
the fully alive version of ourselves.。
2 Corinthians 3:17 reminds us。
that where the Spirit of the Lord is working,。
He brings freedom.。
Now we are going to get practical.。
And I know all the introverts are cringing,。
thinking, do I have to connect with someone?。
No, you don't, only the Holy Spirit.。
We are going to slow down。
and we are going to listen to the convicting voice。
of the Holy Spirit.。
You can use your phones,。
you can use your old school like me, your journal.。
You're going to write down whatever you hear。
and you're not going to overthink it.。
We have a great way of discounting。
the voice of the Holy Spirit.。
He speaks, we go, that can't be,。
that can't be the Holy Spirit.。
Whatever you hear, write it down.。
We are going to respond, so we're not only going to listen,。
but we're going to respond to what we hear.。
It's His kindness that leads us to repentance.。
You need to know that He comes,。
that His conviction comes with kindness.。
We're going to sit in what we hear。
and we're going to respond from our hearts.。
This isn't going to be about me,。
it's not going to be about any of the leadership here,。
this is a moment just for you and the Holy Spirit.。
Now maybe you're here today and you're not a Christian。
and you're thinking, well, this is going to be a waste。
of my time.。
Actually, you need to know that God。
has a real soft spot for you.。
In the Bible, there's a whole story。
where He leaves all the people who already know Him。
and He goes and searches for the one that's lost.。
(gentle music)。
So actually, this time is more for you。
than any other person in this room.。
You see, He's still speaking to you,。
even if you don't know Him yet.。
You can still hear Him.。
So now we're going to take some time.。
Just you and the Holy Spirit.。
Imagine like my dad sitting beside me。
with his arm draped over me.。
That's how the Holy Spirit comes to us in gentleness.。
He sits beside us and He whispers。
and He reminds us of things that we need to hear,。
things we need to fix,。
things we need to let go of.。
So now, take this moment to listen.。
Don't get distracted.。
If you're online, I hope that you are doing this。
with us as well.。
We invite you to join with us.。
And now we're gonna take some time to sit。
in the comfort of the Holy Spirit.。
And we're gonna continue to listen to His gentle whispers。
and we're not going to rush.。
Once again, whatever you hear,。
you're gonna write it down and you're gonna sit.。
Just sit in His presence.。
Last night as I was sleeping,。
I was kind of in and out of sleep。
as I was thinking about today.。
And I think my mind was worried about being prepared。
and through it all, I just heard the Holy Spirit say,。
"Susanna, my presence is not dependent。
"on your preparedness.。
"My presence is determined by your welcome."。
And I was thinking about that on the bus on the way in。
and I looked up the Hebrew word for welcome.。
And it means to bless the one who comes.。
And I thought, whoa, so many times I look to be blessed.。
But how many times have I blessed the Holy Spirit。
by making room for Him。
and blessing Him with my time。
and blessing Him with my attention。
and blessing Him with my obedience?。
So today as we listen to His comfort,。
choose to welcome Him, to make space.。
He's with you already, but He's a gentleman.。
He only goes as far as we allow Him.。
So welcome Him.。
Make space.。
Let your ears be attentive。
to what He is speaking into your life right now.。
The worship team is gonna come,。
but we are not ending this.。
(gentle music)。
The Holy Spirit reminded me of a moment。
when I was a teenager and I was in a Christian conference。
for teenagers.。
And the person who was preaching,。
I was standing at the altar call。
and he looked at me and he said,。
"The Holy Spirit is hovering over your life."。
And in that moment, I didn't fully understand。
what that meant, but I do now。
because the Holy Spirit across my life。
has been slowly bringing all the disorder into order.。
Taking all the broken pieces and weaving His gold。
between those broken pieces and remaking this part,。
giving me a beautiful story to tell.。
The Holy Spirit is hovering over all our lives.。
And this is not a moment just to be had and forgotten,。
but a moment to be carried into your everyday.。
You see, it doesn't matter if you're on a bus。
or driving a car or having a shower or washing the dishes.。
He's present with you.。
So welcome Him and listen.。
He's working to make you。
the splitting image of Jesus.。
He's working to make you like Jesus.。
He's working to restore。
the broken pieces of your life.。
But it only works if we listen and we obey.。
So make this a daily thing。
where you're stopping and you're listening。
and you're responding.。
He's your best friend,。
He will convict you and He will comfort you.。
Father, we just all come to you right now and。
we carry such brokenness sometimes, God,。
such disorder and chaos at times.。
Holy Spirit, teach us to slow down,。
teach us to remove distractions。
and do the one thing that's needed。
to sit with you in your presence。
and listen and respond.。
We commit ourselves to you and we ask。
that we will have the courage to respond。
to the things that you talk to us about today.。
Father, if you've challenged some of us。
to be more generous with our time or money,。
give us the courage to respond.。
If you've challenged us to restore。
a broken relationship with your help,。
give us the courage to love well.。
If you've encouraged us to let things go,。
(gentle music)。
whatever that may be,。
to make more space and room.。
If you've told us to say no to a relationship。
because it's not the right one for us,。
give us courage.。
Help us to walk these things out。
that you've spoken to us about today。
and rest in the comfort that comes when we do respond.。
We just thank you for loving us。
and walking with us and persisting with us.。
Thank you.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
