Everyone says, "Amen." Hey, can we thank our worship team as always? Thank you guys.。
Have a seat, have a seat. We are absolutely over full. We've had to close。
the service and not let anyone more in, but we do have one or two space. So if。
you've now sat down and there's a space next to you, could you just put your hand。
up? There's a whole bunch of people standing around here that would like to。
get a seat. There's one seat right here. This is the upgrade seat. It's like。
first-class for you. Yes, there's a seat there. Come on in, come on in, have a seat。
right here. I'm trying to sell you my seat. There you go. It's a nice seat. There。
you go. Any other seats around, please put your hand up if you have a seat. We want。
to make sure that we can get as many people in as possible. Just a reminder,。
once again, welcome to our 11 o'clock service. If you're relatively new to the。
Vine, we're so glad you're here. We do have a 9/15 service and a 2 o'clock。
service. There's a bit of room in those services, so we encourage you, if that。
works for your timing, to come to those services. We understand that there was a。
marathon today. Anyone run in the marathon today? Come on, yes! What did you。
do? Did you do like a 10k? 10k? Awesome. Anyone do a half marathon in the room?。
No, you're dead. You do the half marathon? Oh, you did one before? No, that doesn't。
count. Well done to you. All right. Well, my name is Andrew. Like I said, I'm one of。
the pastors, and it's great to have you with us. We have sent, at the start of。
this year, a call from God towards greater intimacy with Him. The sort of。
idea that, as much as we love gathering like this on a Sunday and coming into。
God's atmosphere and His presence here, and we'll continue to do this on a。
Sunday, that God has actually so much more for us. That coming into a community。
like this, into the atmosphere of God in a room like this, is not the end point of。
what God wants for you. It's actually the catalyst for you to push beyond just a。
feeling of God into a deeper and more personal intimacy with Him.。
And that's everything that's on our heart for the Vine this year. And so this。
is your home church. If this is what you're a part of, we want to help。
facilitate in our times together this movement from just the atmosphere of God。
to a living and active faith with the very person of God. And last week, in。
week two, I mentioned that there are two critical traps. Really important you hear。
this. Two critical traps that Christians fall into when it comes to the intimacy。
of God, and that actually limits their ability to be in intimacy with God. Last。
week I spoke about the first of those traps, and it's the trap of building our。
relationship with God primarily on other people's opinions, other people's。
perspectives, other people's ideas, even other people's intimacy with God, that we。
end up building our relationship with Jesus not on a direct relationship with。
Him, but on everybody else's relationship with Him. Does that make sense? And what。
happens is we end up building this relationship with Jesus off of everybody。
else's perspectives and opinions by what we read, what we hear, what we download,。
what we whatever, and those things are good, of course. There's nothing wrong。
with learning from others. So much of our Christian faith is about learning from。
others, but when that is the primary posture of our relationship with Jesus,。
that we're only building a relationship with Him based on what everybody else。
says, then what ends up happening is what I said last week. You will end up。
worshiping a second-hand Jesus. You will end up having a borrowed faith. You're。
worshiping somebody else's experience of Jesus. And if we truly want to move into。
deeper intimacy with Him this year, what I said last week is resonant for us this。
week. We have to trade rumor of God for firsthand faith. See, rumor of God, other。
people's perspectives and opinions, is not intimacy, and we need to move from。
just rumor of God, as helpful as that can be for us, and as helpful as it can be。
for our theology, and great that it can be for us to learn and grow in Christ.。
All of that is good, but we need to move from just rumor to firsthand faith. That。
was last week. That was the first critical trap. I want to talk today about。
the second critical trap that has the power to limit your ability to be in。
intimacy with Christ. And to introduce that to you, I need to talk to you about。
a funeral. I came on staff here at the Vine 15 years ago, and I came straight。
out of Bible school. I'd studied in Bible school. I'd had a career in banking prior。
to going to Bible school. At the age of 30, I went to Bible school for four years,。
and then off the back of Bible school, I came here to the Vine and became a part。
of the pastoral team. And of course, back in those days, there was other senior。
pastors. Senior pastors John and Tony were leading the church at that time. In。
about the first month that I am on staff, an emergency funeral comes up. There is a。
shocking death within our community. Somebody passed away that nobody。
expected would happen, and it meant that we had to do this sudden funeral for。
this family. And it just so happened that John and Tony were not available to。
attend or to run this funeral, so the funeral came to me. And to tell you that。
I was terrified is an understatement, okay? Bible school is great. Bible school。
gives you a lot of information about God. It helps you to study the Word of God. I。
love my time in Bible school. What Bible school doesn't do is help you to prepare。
for a funeral, okay? Some people feel like it's their funeral at Bible school, but。
anyway, that's a whole different story. But it doesn't help prepare you to help a。
family walk through some of the hardest times of their lives. And so I was。
terrified. I was so green in my experience in this area, but I did all。
the right things, right? So I prayed about it. I met with the family, and we grieved。
together. We talked about how they wanted the memorial to go, the flow of the。
memorial. On the day of the memorial itself, my heart was beating really hard.。
I was super sweaty and nervous. I was praying that only 20 people would show。
up, so it'd be nice and small and easy to handle. Over 300 people came to this。
particular memorial. This guy was well known in his company. He was。
well known in Hong Kong. And so there was a lot of people there at the memorial,。
and I did a terrible job through the memorial. But it got to the point of the。
eulogies, and we had arranged that four people were going to give a eulogy about。
this person. And those four people were friends and colleagues of him and family。
as well. And so each person got up and did what a eulogy is supposed to do,。
right? They get up, and they talked about their relationship with this person. And。
as people were talking, and they were so beautiful, these eulogies, so articulate.。
Every single person just did a phenomenal job in doing these eulogies.。
But I noticed along the way that there was a pattern to what I was hearing in。
the eulogies. And the pattern was that everybody was speaking about all of the。
things that this person had done for them. And they were just so overwhelmed。
with gratitude for what this person had done in their lives. For some, it had been。
that he had been their mentor in the office and had helped them to get。
promotions through the company. For others, it was generosity. This person had。
been super generous to them, and they had received that generosity and were so。
grateful for it. For others, it was just the benefits of receiving hospitality in。
their home and welcoming them into the home. Every single person talked about。
all the amazing things that this guy had done for them, had benefited them with,。
had blessed them with, or some of the crazy great achievements that he had。
done in the world. And I sat there, and I thought to myself, "This is what I want at。
my funeral." I thought, "How amazing would it be if whenever it is that I die, that。
a whole bunch of people gather in a room and talk about all the。
things that I had done for them, all the things that I had achieved for them, all。
the things that I had blessed them with, that I had done for them on their。
behalf, my generosity, my love, my support, my prayers, whatever it might be. I was。
like, "This is what surely you would want at a funeral." Well, after the four eulogies。
had finished, the wife gets up. And as she gets up and walks towards the。
microphone, the whole room was just totally silent. And there was this huge。
amount of respect in the room for what this woman was going through. And she。
gets and stands there in front of everybody, and for ages she doesn't say。
anything. She's just overwhelmed with emotion, which you can understand. And you。
can see the emotion in her face. And this went on for quite some time, and I was。
at the point where I was thinking, "Do I need to get up and come alongside。
of her and help her?" And just as I'm kind of thinking that maybe that's what I。
need to do, she moves her hand up towards the microphone, and her hand is shaking。
because she's so emotional. And the sense I had was she had a prepared speech, but。
she doesn't want to give the prepared speech. And she grabbed the microphone,。
and she said this. She said, "I just miss him. I just miss him." And it was like the。
perfect thing to say, because everybody else had said that they had missed what。
he had done for them. They missed his hospitality, or his generosity, or the。
fact that he was a mentor for them. And no doubt that this woman had received。
more from her husband than anyone else. She had received more benefit, more。
provision. He had done some amazing things for her and her family, I'm。
absolutely sure. But she stood before everybody, and she said, "You want to know。
the one thing? I just miss him. Not the things of him, not the activities。
that he did, not all the great achievements that he made in his life. I just miss。
being with him." And in that moment, I saw a picture of what true intimacy is,。
because everybody else in that room had a relationship with this person, but that。
room, that woman in the room, she was the one who was intimate with him. And she。
just missed him. And as we start this year of intimacy here at the Vine, I。
think there's an absolutely critical question that we all need to sit with。
and wrestle with, and it's this, that in your relationship with God, is it built。
on the things of God, or on the person of God? Say that again. Is your relationship。
with God, as you start this year, largely, primarily built on the things of God, or。
on the person of God? Because let's be honest with ourselves, the wonderful。
thing about being a Christian is that we get to worship our God. That he's a God。
who's a good father, who loves to pour out his blessings on his people. He loves。
to fill us with his gifts, and his spirit, and his love, and his goodness. We just。
sung that song. He's been good to us. We love the reality that we worship a God。
who, out of the kindness and the generosity of his heart, wants you to。
flourish as best you can in your life. He wants to come along and bless you,。
and secure you, and grow you, and do all the things that he can do to make your。
life the best thing that it can ever be. But here's the reality, when that is so。
much the focus of our relationship, that we build our relationship with God on。
the things that he does for us, you put yourself at the center of that。
relationship. It's then becoming a little bit more about you than it is about him,。
and secondly, your emotions are actually now linked, not to the person of God, but。
to what he does for you. Follow this. I found this so much in my life. There was。
a season where I realized that if God was blessing me, if God was answering my。
prayers, if he was coming through for me in the ways that I was hoping he would。
come through for me, then I felt loved and accepted by him. But in the seasons。
where it goes a bit silent, in the seasons where the blessings weren't。
there, in the seasons where it felt like God was quite distant from me, I was。
disappointed and angry, and I felt lack of intimacy with him. Are you with me? And。
the reality is, for all of us, when we're in this kind of approach in our。
relationship with God, we have to wrestle with the reality that so often we。
actually build the foundation of whether we're loved or accepted by God by what。
he does for us, rather than just purely who he is. And what ends up happening for。
all of us is that our intimacy with God is actually not an intimacy with him, but。
it's an intimacy with the things of him. When your intimacy is built on the。
things of God and not God himself, that is idol worship. God had to come to me a。
few years ago in one of my quiet times and say this to me. He said, "Would you。
rather have me or my blessings?" I think that's a deeply challenging question.。
Would you rather have me or my blessings? And I find this deeply challenging。
because I know from my own personal life that I am attracted to the burning bush,。
but often I don't see beyond the flames to the God behind the bush. I'm attracted。
to the benefits of God. I'm attracted to the things of God, what God can do for me,。
the blessings that come upon me, the things that I know that his。
mighty hand can provide for me. I'm attracted to those things, and I find。
myself drawing near to God because of my attraction to the benefits of being in。
relationship with God, but I find myself rarely taking off my sandals and stepping。
on the holy ground and communing with him. And when that's the case, we've got。
an issue. And I think this is not just my problem, I think it's our problem. And I。
think in a year of intimacy with him, we have to wrestle with this reality deep。
inside each one of us. It's easy for us to be attracted to the benefits of God,。
but when your primary intimacy with him is based out of what he does or doesn't。
do for you, your relationship with him will be like this all the time. And Paul。
would write to the church, and he would say, "I know what it is to be hungry, and I。
know what it is to be fed. I know what it is to be shipwrecked, and I know what it。
is to be safe. I know what it is to be wealthy, I know what it is to be poor. I've。
experienced the blessings, and I've experienced the seasons without the。
blessings, but I have learned the secret of being content. No matter what might be。
happening, no matter what God might be doing, no matter what blessings or not。
blessings might happen in my life, I've learned what it is to be intimate with。
him because I'm not basing the relationship that I have on Jesus by。
what Jesus does for me." I think we all have to recognize that the reality for。
many of us is that we want more from God, but not necessarily more of God. Come on。
church. Hi. Everybody okay? We have this thing where we want more from God, what。
he can do for us, but we don't necessarily want more of God, our。
relationship with him, and we're happy to have all the benefits of relationship。
with Jesus without any of the responsibility. A few years ago, my。
absolute singular obsession in life was to get to silver class on Cathay Pacific.。
It was my absolute obsession to get from the green card that you get when you。
just buy a ticket to the silver card. Oh sweet Jesus on high, if you could just。
get me lounge access, I would love Cathay for the rest of my life. That would be。
amazing. Now I recognize some of you in this room watching online in the。
overflow, you have diamond status with Cathay Pacific. I recognize that. You have。
diamond status, yes, because you fly a lot, but you also have diamond status because。
you probably work for a large multinational company that buys your。
tickets in business class at the highest amount of price possible so that you can。
have the greatest amount of flexibility possible, which means you earn the most。
miles possible and the biggest sector points possible, and it's the sector。
points that actually help you to get the status. However, I work for a church, and。
you, if you tithe here at the Vine, you'll be very happy to know that if I could。
fly in cargo class, the church would put me in cargo class, okay? I am so far back。
in economy, they basically should just put me in a suitcase, okay? My secretary,。
Veronica, she is phenomenal at finding the cheapest economy class fares on Cathay。
Pacific that is absolutely possible, and from a governance perspective, for all of。
you, that's a really good thing, but what it means for me is that it's really hard。
to earn sector points and miles on Cathay Pacific when you pay peanuts, you。
get monkeys, okay? And so for two years, I had this obsession that I was gonna get。
myself to silver status, you know? And so every flight I took, whether personal or。
with work, I was on Cathay Pacific. I actually got one of the American Express。
Cathay Pacific cards so that every time I went to a restaurant, I earned more。
points. If you could have flown Cathay from Kowloon to Central, I would have。
flown Cathay Pacific. I didn't particularly like Cathay Pacific more。
than any other airline. Sorry, Ken. Ken's in the overflow. I love you, Ken. It was。
just, it was our national carrier. It was the easiest airline and it was having。
the best benefits, and I cannot describe to you what the moment was like when I。
got the letter in the mail with the silver card inside it. Oh, ladies and。
gentlemen, you know it comes with a little tag that you're supposed to。
put on your luggage. Nobody puts the tag. I put the tag on my luggage. I wanted。
everybody in the airport to know that I had earned my silver status on Cathay。
Pacific. I remember the first flight, the next flight I was on Cathay, I remember。
going to Kai Tak, no it was Chet Blackcock, I went to Chet Blackcock. I was there。
four hours early because I'm gonna make that buffet pay in the lounge. I went。
into that lounge with my silver card out like super proud. I'm like, where is the。
food? Give me the food. I dominated that food. I basically paid back for two years。
of flights on that buffet alone. Well, you can probably guess what happens. A year。
later, I haven't flown enough to keep my status on Cathay Pacific. A year later, I。
get a mail and the letter says, "Hey, congratulations, you are green card now."。
And I'm like, hang on a sec. After spending all those years and time and。
energy and everything I did on Cathay Pacific to get myself into the lounge。
with my silver card, then I didn't fly enough in that year post that to earn。
enough miles to stay in that status. And suddenly I dropped down to green and。
basically Cathay was dead to me. I wasn't interested in Cathay after that. I。
couldn't care less, whatever. They're not gonna treat me well, then I am not。
bothered. Here's the point. Some of you in this room, you are on a frequent flyer。
program with God and you're wondering why you're struggling to find intimacy。
with Him. Because your whole relationship with Him is based on the benefits of。
being in relationship with Him. And when those benefits are good, you're super。
happy. You're happy to fly God Airlines when things are going well for you. But。
when things don't go well, particularly when you thought you earned the miles,。
but the miles were not actually enough. When you thought you put on all that。
spiritual work to get yourself into a better relationship with Him. When you。
thought you had prayed harder for that thing than you had prayed for anything。
else and yet God didn't answer that prayer, you want a discount. You struggle。
and we struggle with this up-and-down relationship with God based surely on。
all of this process. And we have to recognize that when we base our。
relationship with God on the benefits of God, we've stepped into idolatry. I。
would say it this way. The greatest idolatry in the church today is the。
idol worship of the benefits of God. It is seeking God or pursuing Him primarily。
for what He can do for us rather than simply for who He is. It is mistaking。
blessing for intimacy. There's nothing wrong with the blessings of God. Don't。
hear me wrong today. There's nothing wrong with the fact that God loves to。
pour out His love. He wants to pour out Himself to you. His blessings are。
abundant for you. But when we get seduced by the blessings of God and we allow。
that to become the primary focus for us, the primary thing that helps us to feel。
whether we're in relationship with God or not, helps us to feel whether God is。
pleased with us or not. I'm gonna preach on this one for a second.。
There's some of us here, and I put myself in this camp sometimes, where we。
actually put our whether God is pleased with us or not based on。
whether we receive His blessings or not. You need to understand that the blessings。
of God are not the marker of whether God is pleased with you, nor is it actually。
the proof that you're in a good relationship with Him. In fact, there are。
many examples in the Bible where because of God's generosity and because of God's。
love and because of how God sees His people, He's pouring out His blessings。
when His people are far from Him. When His people couldn't care less. When His。
people aren't in some intimate relationship with Him, God is still blessing them. We。
saw this recently in our Exodus series. If you're a part of the Vine over the。
last year, we went through the book of Exodus, and we saw there that there was。
this moment where because of their unfaithfulness, Israel's unfaithfulness,。
because they didn't trust God with the promised land, God made them wander in。
the desert for 40 years. God wasn't pleased with them in that moment. There。
wasn't this deep relationship that God had freed them out of。
their slavery for in that moment. Israel was walking in the opposite spirit. They。
were actually worshipping other idols in the land at that time. But every single。
day of those 40 years, God in His miracle working heart blessed them with manna。
from heaven that kept them alive. Every single day. Every single day He poured out the。
blessings of God on His people, even when their relationship was not in a healthy。
place. And some of us here, we are basing the health of our relationship with God。
on whether we're receiving His blessings or not. And if you do that, you're gonna。
have a very difficult time of being intimate with Him. There's gonna be some。
challenges for you, because there will be seasons where you will feel those。
blessings, but there will also be seasons when you don't. And your intimacy, and。
whether God is pleased with you, or whether even you're in a right。
relationship with Him, is not because He's answering your prayers, or He's。
giving you that promotion at work, or He's helping solve that thing in your。
family. It's simply because He loves you. He loves you. And your intimacy with Him。
cannot be based on what He does or doesn't do for you in your perspective.。
It has to be based in who He is, regardless of what might happen for you.。
This is not a new issue for the church. So if we are struggling with this, well,。
it's not a new issue. In fact, in the Gospel of John, in roundabout chapter 6,。
there is this amazing moment where Jesus does this incredible miracle. He's up on。
a mountain, and He's just taught the people, and the Sea of Galilee is just in。
front. And the people have been there all day, listening to Him teach. And the。
disciples come to Him and say, "Hey, the people are hungry, and we can't send them。
away without any food." And Jesus says, "Well, what have you got?" And they say, "Well,。
we've only got a couple of loaves and fishes." Jesus takes them, He prays for。
them, He blesses them. The disciples start handing them out, and they feed the。
whole 5,000 people. Just these little bit of resource in God's hands can achieve so。
much. And God, through Jesus, sends out His blessing to all of these 5,000 people.。
Some of them who were poor people that were living in the Galilee area at that。
time, who probably hadn't had a big meal that whole week. People who are。
vulnerable and poor, they're now being fed by just a few loaves and a few fishes.。
And God's heart for blessing is so abundant and so outpouring that the Bible。
tells us that leftovers were there after everybody had said, "Well, hobo, I can't。
take any more," right? Everybody said, "I am totally stuffed." There's still。
leftovers there because God is saying, "This is my heart for pouring out my。
blessings. I will pour them out so much of my people that there will be even an。
abundance and leftover from those blessings." It's a beautiful thing. The。
next day, perhaps not surprisingly, the people who had been fed the day before,。
they show up back where Jesus had been the day before because they want to get。
fed again. They want to experience that again. But interestingly, Jesus is not。
there. Let me pick up the story at that point. Is this helping some people here?。
No. Okay. Matthew, John chapter 6, starting in verse 24. So when the crowd saw that。
neither Jesus nor his disciples were there, they got into the boats and went。
across the Capernaum to look for him there. They found him on that other side。
of the lake and they asked, "Rabbi, when did you get here? Like, what's going on?。
We're trying to find you. When did you get here?" Verse 26, Jesus replied, "I tell you。
the truth. You want to be with me because I fed you, not because you understood。
the miraculous signs." Jesus sometimes didn't win friends or influence people.。
Sometimes Jesus got right to the heart of the matter. And all these crowds showed。
up again and they're like, "Where have you been, Jesus? We've been looking for you.。
We want to be with you." And he's like, "The only reason we want to be with me is。
because I fed you yesterday, but you didn't see beyond the burning bush to。
the God that's behind the flames. You didn't understand the miraculous sign。
that was there, that this is actually not about the fact that I can feed your。
stomachs for a few hours. It's about the fact that God is present with you, that。
the Messiah has come, that you're being welcomed into a new relationship that。
will change your heart and change your life." Jesus is saying, "You got to see。
behind the blessings, but what's happened is you've gotten so focused on the。
blessing that you've forgotten about the blesser. You're so into the gift that。
you're not even thinking about the giver. And you just want to come to me because。
I'm giving to you and you're coming to me dependent on what I'm giving to you。
and he's saying, "You've got to see bigger than that." This is really important。
because I think it picks up on a point that resonates for so many of us and。
it's this. When we're obsessed with the blessings of God and we're building。
our intimacy with him primarily on what he does or doesn't do for us, that is。
primarily a self-centered way of being. That's about what God can do for me.。
Let me make this really clear. God does not exist so you can use him. Jesus is not a。
good luck charm that you wear around your neck to get a couple of blessings。
this week. Selfishness sits at the very heart of why we want more from God than。
more of God. Selfishness, self-centeredness. If you want to deepen。
your intimacy with God this year, that's something to pray about. That's something。
to come around and say, "Where is the selfishness, self-centeredness in me when。
it comes to my relationship with him?" It's really important you understand that。
Jesus died so that he would deliver us from a self-centered life and bring us。
into a God-centered life. That's why Jesus went to the cross. That's the。
biggest blessing that there could ever be. The reality of our salvation in him,。
the forgiveness of our sins, so that we would reorientate our lives away from。
"Give me, give me, give me" to "How do I serve? How do I honor? How do I worship? How do。
I adore? How do I give my whole self to the fact that now my life revolves。
around God, whereas before God was revolving around me?" And if I'm honest。
with you here at the Vine, I would say for some of us in this room watching。
online right now, in the overflow, for some of us we're in the center and God。
is revolving around us. That's not intimacy. That's self-centered idolatry.。
Jesus says this to them. He says, "Don't be so concerned about perishable things like。
food. Spend your energy seeking the eternal life that the Son of Man can。
give you. For God the Father has given me the seal of his approval." In other words,。
if we're going to talk about blessings, Jesus is saying to the crowd, if we're。
going to talk about blessings, let's actually not focus on temporal blessings。
that help for a moment. Let's talk about eternal blessing. Let's talk about the。
real blessing that matters. The one about you and your soul. The one about your。
relationship for eternity. The one that's going to form and shape you forever.。
Let's get our hearts focused on the eternal and off of just the temporal.。
Again, not that God doesn't care about your temporal situation. Not that he。
doesn't want to pour out his heart in you. Not that he doesn't want to bless。
you. Of course he does, but he doesn't want your focus to be so much on the。
immediacy of a blessing that you miss the longevity of your relationship with。
him. Notice how the people reply. The crowds reply. This was not what they were。
expecting to hear. They replied in verse 28, "We want to perform God's works too, so。
what should we do?" This is always the inevitable result that happens when we。
have a self-centered and mostly a benefits of God relationship with him.。
Here's what will always happen. We will always want to take control of those。
benefits. We will always want to shape our lives around those benefits, and in。
order to do that, we will try to grasp a hold of them. We will try to get those。
benefits in our hands. They turn to Jesus and they say, "Tell us what we need to do。
to be able to do the things that you've done for us. We want to take the。
blessings of God, and we want to be the ones that are in control of those。
blessings. We want to be the ones that can feed ourselves and our families。
whenever we want to. We want to be able to bless our community." And there was。
probably some good in their hearts when they were saying this to Jesus, but their。
thinking is faulty because they're basing it off of this kind of。
reciprocal sort of relationship with God, rather than a relationship with him which。
just puts him first. And they're saying, "Okay, how do we get the ability to。
control these things?" In other words, they're basically saying, "How do we earn。
the miles? What do we need to do? What's the credit card we need to get? What's。
the flights that we need to book? How do we get ourselves up on status with you,。
God, so that we can do the things that you do?" Jesus says this in response. Verse。
29, "Jesus told them, 'This is the only work God wants for you.'" I'm gonna read that。
again. "This is the only work that God wants from you. Believe in the one he has。
sent." In other words, the only thing he wants from you is to believe in him, to。
connect with him, to have relationship with him. Does he want to bless you?。
Absolutely he does. Does he want to pour out his gifts into your life? A hundred。
percent. Are those gifts good for you? Yes, they are. Do they change our relationship。
with him in some ways? Do we feel his closeness to us when we receive those。
gifts? Of course we do. But what Jesus is trying to do for the crowds, I think what。
he's trying to do for us, is elevate us into a different plane where our。
relationship is not dependent on whether we feel like we're being blessed by。
God, but our relationship is simply in the belief, in the confession, in the。
repentance, in the living out of an honest and real relationship with Jesus.。
When we can echo with Paul, "I know what it is to be this, and I know what it is。
to be that, but I have found the secret of being content," that we could echo with。
that woman at the funeral and say, "I just miss him. I just miss him. Not all the。
things he did for me, him." If my wife, Chris, gave me a gift, which she does every。
once in a while, she gave me a gift and I took that gift and I threw it away just。
to focus on her, I wouldn't be honoring her in the giving of that gift. And so。
when God blesses you, he's not asking you to throw it away and ignore it. His。
blessings are good for you. Does that make sense? And you receiving those blessings。
and walking in those blessings in your life is a way of honoring and worshiping。
him. Equally though, if my wife gave me a gift and I was like, "I am so in love with。
this gift that I walk away from her, that I make all my time and my effort, my。
passion on the gift, and I don't even think about the person who gave me that。
gift," then that is also equally wrong. Are you with me? Both of those extremes are。
wrong, and the reality is, as Christians, we so live often between one of those。
two extremes. But what if my wife gave me a gift and I was so honored by that and。
I loved the gift and I enjoyed the gift, but then I allowed that gift not to make。
me self-centered in who I am and walking off and ignoring her, but actually using。
that gift to fill me with a greater love, a greater desire, a greater need to be。
intimate with her, and to realize that the gift is not the sum total of who she is。
for me, but it's just the catalyst that can bring me out of myself back to her。
in relationship with her. Are you with me? It's about getting the direction of God's。
blessings. Some of you, in action from this message, all you need to do is。
reorientate your thinking about the blessings of God. They are not a sign of。
whether He's pleased with you or not. They're an ability for you to connect。
better with Him, to not take it all into the gift and think the gift is everything,。
but to allow the gift to move... Another way of saying it is, God's gifts are not。
gods, but they are gods. All right, that's tricky in English. Have a look at it on。
the screen here. God's gifts in your life are not deities. They're not gods to be。
worshipped, but they are gods. They are an expression of His character, of His。
goodness, and how much He loves you, and when you get that in the right balance,。
when you stop worshipping the benefits of God and actually start to worship Him,。
realizing that those benefits and those gifts are a trigger for you to be in。
deeper and more personal relationship with Him, you come to realize that the。
gifts are actually not bad, not something you should throw away. They're triggers。
for you to connect with Him more. They're invitations for you to find Him, and in。
the seasons where you don't have those gifts, it's not like He's not inviting。
you to be intimate with Him. He's just letting you know that His intimacy and。
your intimacy with Him is not dependent on what He does for you every single day.。
I love the way that Psalm 37 verse 4 puts it. It says this, it says, "Delight。
yourself in the Lord, and He will give you the desires of your heart." Notice。
the order there. It doesn't say, "Delight in the desires of your heart and all。
that God has done for you, and then try to find Him." It's saying, "Delight in the。
Lord with all of your heart, mind, soul, and strength, and then everything else。
will be there." It's like Jesus in Matthew 6. He says those amazing things. He says,。
"Seek first the kingdom of God, and everything else will be added to you.。
Everything else will be given to you. I want to give you all those things, but。
seek first me." Here's the reality. When our intimacy is based primarily with the。
benefits of God, here's what happens. We end up seeking the blessings of God in。
hope that we would, through receiving the blessings, actually find God. But it's the。
other way around. We need to seek God, and in finding God, we will come to receive。
His blessings. Do you follow that? I think so often we seek the blessing as a。
defining characteristic of who God is. We think we're going to find God out of。
the blessing. God is saying, "Seek me first, and all these other things will be。
added unto you. I just miss Him." There's another beautiful psalm. I'll close with。
this. This is a beautiful psalm. Psalm 131, verse 2. I want to read this to you,。
because this is really important. "Instead, I have calmed and quieted myself," the。
psalmist writes, "like a weaned child who no longer cries for its mother's milk.。
Yes, like a weaned child is my soul within me." He's talking about his soul,。
and he's saying, "I've matured. I've grown up, and my soul is now weaned before you,。
and in that place, I find myself at rest. I find myself with you like I've never。
found you before." It's a beautiful picture here of a child, and in the。
picture, there's a child nursing with its mother. If you're a mother in。
this room, or if you've been a mother in this room, you'll know what this is like.。
When you've got a child who's nursing at your breast, the child knows that that's。
where it goes to for its milk. If the child is near you, it starts。
screaming. It starts crying out. It wants its milk. It wants its provision. Its。
primary relationship with its mother at that point when it's nursing is, "This。
mother can do something for me." When the mother doesn't do that, it screams,。
it cries, it lashes out. Nesamus is using that as a picture, and he's saying,。
"I want to be a nursed child. I want to be a weaned child, sorry, not a nursing child。
when it comes to God. I want to be one who finds myself still and alive in Him。
because I'm not kicking and screaming when God doesn't do what I want。
God to do. I want to find myself quiet and at rest, knowing that just like a。
weaned child, I can crawl up to my mother." This is what a weaned child does. "Comes to。
its mother now," and the child trusts the mother. It's not kicking and screaming。
anymore. It trusts that the mother will provide at the right time. It wants to。
just be with its mother for the comfort and security of lying in its mother's。
arms, no longer screaming for the milk from the breast. Nesamus is pulling all。
this picture together, and he's saying this, "You need to wean yourself." Last week I。
spoke about gleaning. This week I'm finishing talking about weaning. Some of。
you in this room, you need to wean yourself off of your codependency for。
the blessings of God. You need to go from a nursing child with God to a weaned。
child who can say, "It is all right with my soul, whether God does anything else。
for me ever again, whether He answers a prayer or not, whether He comes through。
or not, and I hope He does, and I really hope He does, but the reality is my whole。
relationship with Him is not dependent on what He's going to do for me. It is。
dependent on the fact that He is just who He is, and I trust Him. I trust that。
He will nurture me, care for me, provide for me, answer the prayers. I trust that,。
but I'm not gonna kick and scream, get angry when it doesn't feel like it's。
happening, because I am weaned from Him and that dependency of being on those。
things. I am not connected to them in a codependency state. Does that make sense。
to you?" And so I want to invite you, if this is a year of intimacy for you, this。
is a year of freedom, and the blessings of God are good and great, and we should。
hunger for them and desire them, absolutely, but may we not build our。
relationship with God based on what we do or do not receive from Him. May we。
build our relationship with Him, finding ourselves quietened in our soul before。
Him, because we just want Him. That, my friends, is true intimacy. Shall we pray?。
Let's pray. Father, I thank you for each person here. Father, I thank you for your。
love, and I thank you that you see them, and I thank you, Lord, that your heart is。
a good father, and that you long to pour out your blessings, your gifts, and there。
are so many great benefits of being in relationship with you. Lord, we are so。
grateful that we worship you and not some other idol in our lives. We thank。
you for the blessings that you pour out so abundantly that there are leftovers。
at a feast. We thank you that you pour out those blessings on us abundantly。
with a generous wrist. But Lord, we ask that you would forgive us. Forgive us。
where we've taken the good things of God and we've turned them into God's。
themselves. Forgive us where at times we've become codependent on the。
blessings. Forgive us where we've made the blessings the signal to us, the。
barometer of our health, of our relationship with you. Forgive us where。
those blessings have become more important to us than simply you. Lord, if。
we're in this room watching online in the overflow and we know that our。
intimacy with you is primarily based on what we receive from you, Lord, we pray for。
maturity for us this year. We pray that you would mature this church, you would。
mature each person here. You would help us to find Paul's words echoing in our。
hearts. I have learned the secret of being content whether there are。
blessings or not. I just want him. Take a moment for yourself now. Just a moment。
between you and God. Off the back of everything I've been sharing, how does he。
want to speak to you today? What is it that you might need to confess? How is。
your relationship built with him? I believe he wants to draw near to you now。
and just have a conversation directly with you. And so we're gonna make some。
space for that before we respond together in worship. So take some time.。
Just quiet in your heart. Bring your soul to him. Ask him to speak to you.。
[music]。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
