to receive everything that you want to say to us.。
And we thank you for this in Jesus name.。
Everybody says, amen, amen.。
Awesome, awesome.。
So good.。
Have a seat and I'm excited.。
We got Steve with us today,。
who if you've been coming to the Vine,。
he'll be well familiar to many of you.。
Would you come up and join me, Steve?。
Let's give Steve a round of applause.。
Steve Goldney, if you're not aware,。
was the founder, well, not the founding actually,。
you were the senior pastor of the community church, right?。
For many years here in the city, an amazing church.。
But just recently, Steve's been working at Hong Kong U。
as part of the faith and global engagement team。
at Hong Kong University,。
and particularly leading this effort。
for the undergraduate students called Lead for Life,。
which is really about character leadership.。
And I can't think of more important thing.。
I mean, could you imagine what it would be。
to be a pastor, a believer in Jesus at a university,。
helping over 300 students in the undergraduate class。
go through a course about character leadership.。
So beautiful.。
And then Steve just actually finished and completed。
and has received his PhD in character leadership.。
So can we give Steve a round of applause for that?。
The doctor is in the house.。
I love it.。
But more than all of that, Steve and Marian,。
great friends to Chris and I,。
great friends to many of us here at the Vine.。
They've been part of our church community for many years.。
Steve's got a real gift in teaching his word.。
Would you open your hearts and pray with me。
as we pray for Steve?。
Lord, we thank you for Steve and Marian, for their family.。
Lord, for the gift that sits in this man.。
I know that he's been studying about humility and courage,。
but I believe that he's been studying it。
because that's what he is, humble, courageous, bold.。
And so Lord, we pray that as he opens up scripture。
to us here this morning,。
we would open our hearts to what you need to say.。
Lord, I believe you've got something specific to say。
to every single person here.。
Lord, we would be renewed by the cleansing of your blood。
and by your living word.。
We pray this in Jesus' name, amen.。
- Amen, amen.。
Thank you, Andrew.。
That bit about the doctorate is further proof。
that there is a God,。
and he's a God of mercy and hope.。
Such a joy to be here sharing God's word with you,。
and thank you for the worship team for leading us。
into really the love and the heart of Jesus,。
and that's what we're going to be talking about today.。
So yeah, it's a joy being here.。
Marian and I normally worship at the 9.15,。
so it's exciting to be part of the 11 o'clock。
coming in here, and those online,。
we welcome you, obviously, as well,。
to this time of coming together。
and hearing what it is that God would say to us。
from his word this morning.。
And happy New Year.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
There you go.。
It's been a full week.。
There's lots been going on this week,。
and obviously, we're beginning our journey。
also towards Easter with Ash Wednesday coming up.。
It's a beautiful time in the city,。
obviously, with all the colors,。
and we're gonna be talking about beauty。
in the sermon today.。
We're gonna be talking about。
seeing, and God opening up our eyes.。
Before I even knew that I would be preaching。
right before Vision Sunday,。
then God had laid on my heart a passage。
about Jesus healing a blind man.。
And I always like that when God does something like that,。
because it's just a sign that he sees us.。
God loves to encourage you that you are on the right road。
and the right timing.。
And so, as we look at this。
miracle story about the vision,。
then we wanna recognize that。
the number one。
miracle that Jesus performed while he was here,。
and the reason Jesus came,。
was to restore the sight of the blind,。
physically, but spiritually, for all of us.。
The sign of the Messiah was that he would restore。
the sight of the blind.。
John the Baptist was asking,。
"Is Jesus the one who is the Messiah?"。
And part of the proof that he received from his disciples。
was he's restoring the sight of the blind.。
And he's still doing that miracle.。
He's doing that today.。
He's doing that in all of us, spiritually,。
as we come to him and ask,。
just open the eyes of our heart.。
And that will take humility,。
and that will take courage.。
So we wanna take courage from the passage。
as we look at it, and then begin to say,。
okay, what does this mean for me to see fully?。
When Marian and I lived in London,。
then I had been working for a company。
called Anarchist Consulting at the time.。
Now it's called Accenture.。
So I'd been working with them for a while,。
and then I stepped down from them,。
and I began to study sculpting.。
I'd always wanted to study sculpting,。
and you might be looking at me and saying,。
he doesn't look like a sculptor.。
And you're right.。
I wasn't a very good sculptor,。
but I studied for two years.。
I studied for two years with a sculptor up in Hempstead,。
and we were working together.。
And at one point, she said,。
I think your sketching and drawing is pretty good,。
but it needs to be better.。
And so I went to the Sam Martin School of Art,。
couple of art classes there on sketching and drawing,。
particularly the portraits.。
So in that class, and you have to kind of imagine this,。
it was in San Martin, it was second floor,。
and it was this beautiful light room.。
It wasn't very big.。
There were eight of us students in there,。
and we were all working on our sketching and our drawing,。
and the teacher would be coming around。
looking at our work as we went along.。
One day, she got so frustrated with our lack of progress。
that she looked at all of our work.。
She just yelled out, stop, enough.。
And then she said, everybody get up.。
Now, don't worry, I'm not gonna ask you to do this,。
but for us, she said, everybody get up.。
And so we got up, and she said,。
okay, follow me around the room.。
He said, good in twos.。
There was eight of us, so we began to march.。
And she began to sing, dance, chant this,。
beauty to the left of me, beauty to the right of me,。
I will always look for beauty.。
Beauty to the left of me, beauty to the right of me,。
I will always look for beauty.。
Now, you can imagine what was going through my mind。
having just left Anderson and all that.。
I'm like, where am I, right?。
This is really weird, right?。
And the guy who was there to get his portrait。
was highly amused with all of this.。
But she was right.。
She was right.。
It was really weird, but she was really right.。
Because beauty is all around of us。
for those who have eyes to see.。
Thomas Merton, a beautiful Christian writer,。
he was a Christian monk and poet, he said this.。
He said that every bush is on fire。
for those who have eyes to see.。
He's just saying that all around us,。
there's these places to encounter the living God every day。
if we have eyes to see.。
When Pastor Andrew was closing up the series on Psalm 27,。
and waiting, he was looking at the last verses。
where it says, "I will see the goodness。
"in the land of the living."。
And he was talking about with a lot of social media,。
a lot of with just news media,。
all the news that's going on,。
it can paint a very dark world.。
And it can paint a very uncertain and hard place.。
But there is beauty for those who have eyes to see.。
There is beauty all around us.。
There's to the left of us and to the right of us.。
But do we have eyes to see?。
That's what we're gonna be talking about。
as we look at our passage today.。
So we're gonna look at a short passage.。
It comes in the book of Mark.。
It's Mark 8, begins 22 and then goes to verse 26.。
It's a healing of a blind man.。
You can see it there and I'll just read it for us.。
And they came to Bethsaida.。
And some people brought to him a blind man。
and begged him to touch him.。
Okay, the they there is Jesus and his disciples.。
They'd been on the other side of the lake.。
They came to Bethsaida, northeast side of the Sea of Galilee.。
So they is Jesus and his disciples.。
Bethsaida, hometown of several of the disciples.。
And the some people brought a blind man.。
Now, there's not a specific group.。
Sometimes we'll read in the Gospels,。
there's the Pharisees or there's a whatever.。
This is just some people and it's a blind man.。
So the specifics are not in the individual.。
Specific is in what's about to happen.。
So if we look at what's about to happen,。
it says, "And Jesus took the blind man by the hand。
"and he led him out of the village.。
"And when he had spit on his eyes。
"and laid his hands on him, he asked him,。
"Do you see anything?。
"And the man looked up and said,。
"I see people, but they look like trees walking.。
"And then Jesus laid his hands on his eyes again。
"and he opened his eyes.。
"His sight was restored and he saw everything clearly.。
"And he sent, and Jesus sent him to his home saying,。
"Do not even enter the village."。
Okay, so that's our text.。
That's what happened.。
So what I wanna offer us today is a little model。
that we used at the University of Hong Kong。
with the Character Leadership Program。
that Andrew was talking about。
to help our students reflect on what had happened。
and the importance of what had happened.。
And the model I wanna share with you is by Driscoll.。
It's a model of reflective practice.。
It's basically the three what model.。
What or what happened, so what, and then now what?。
And I like it because it doesn't just focus。
on the what happened and so what and stay there.。
The focus is on the future because that's why we reflect.。
That's also why we reflect on the Bible。
because Jesus says, "Blessed are those。
"who don't only hear or read the word, but they do it."。
So we're getting to the now what.。
And so actually if you're a community group leader。
or lead Bible studies。
or even for your own personal devotion,。
it's a good pattern.。
So I'm just gonna use that today.。
We've already looked at the first what or what happened.。
So now we're gonna go on to the so what.。
The so what in this passage, right away,。
there's something very subtle,。
but something very beautiful that it teaches us about Jesus.。
And that something comes in what Jesus does。
when he takes the man by the hand, it says,。
and he leads him out of the village.。
Yes, the village Bethsaida was a hometown。
and a son of the disciples,。
but it was known more because there was a challenge,。
a challenge Jesus' authority and power.。
So in Matthew 11, 21, we read this,。
"Woe to you, Bethsaida, for if the mighty works done in you。
"had been done in Tyre and Sidon,。
"they would have repented in sackcloth and ashes."。
So what's happening here is this Jesus saying,。
"Yeah, I will heal you,。
"but I'm not gonna do it here in the village.。
"Let's go out to a quiet place。
"because this is not a healing show.。
"This is not a spectacle.。
"I'm not gonna get you involved in all the controversy。
"between those who are criticizing me。
"and you get caught up in all of that.。
"You need to see, I will heal you."。
And he does it in this beautifully,。
compassionate, respectful way.。
And that's Jesus, that's our Jesus, that's what he does.。
If you're here this morning,。
you have something as we were going through,。
praying through the blood and Andrew was leading us。
and there was something there,。
you can bring that right to him。
and know he will meet you with love and respect.。
That's who he is.。
God is love-loving, that's all it is.。
So that's the first thing that we can see in this。
and we can draw comfort on it.。
And let me say, if you're feeling that,。
what I just said had an impact on you,。
then don't lose that.。
Stay with that thought and go and take that to Jesus already。
and then later we'll have some more time to do that.。
Second thing, little more stark。
and that is the two-stage healing.。
So this is very unusual。
because you don't see this in any other healing stories.。
But right in the middle there where Jesus is healing him,。
he spits on his eye, which is kind of a common。
or a customary healing practice at the time.。
Then he lays his hands on him and he says,。
do you see anything?。
And the man says, I see people,。
but they look like trees walking.。
And then Jesus touches him a second time and he heals him.。
And then what it says is here is his eyes were opened.。
It's this word diablepo.。
His sight was restored and he saw everything clearly.。
This diablepo has this meaning of it was opened,。
but it's also this meaning of engaged intent.。
That when you see, it's like coming to life。
and the light has come into the man and he can see.。
Now, the question is,。
why did it have to be a two-stage healing there, right?。
Was it just a bad day for Jesus?。
Was Jesus kind of tired。
and it took like two shots at it or anything?。
And the answer is no.。
Jesus, if you look through all of the miracle healing,。
sometimes he didn't even have to be there。
and the person was healed.。
Sometimes he said a word, sometimes he didn't said a word,。
sometimes, it's not about Jesus healing here,。
but it is about who Jesus is.。
And I think maybe a little bit about the person.。
I don't know about you,。
but I find the two healing very attractive。
'cause often, usually, I need at least two touches from God。
before I can see something clearly, right?。
And God does that.。
He will take as many times as it needs.。
But this particular two-step,。
there's something deeper going on.。
And this something deeper has to do。
with the songs we were just singing。
about the cross and about the blood。
and about the cost and about Jesus' love。
and about all he gave for all of us.。
Now, we need to go deeper,。
but to go deeper, we need to go wider。
and look briefly at the passage before。
and then the passage after, and then we can understand.。
If you've been studying Bible any length of time,。
you know that context is everything.。
This is a great passage that shows the power of context.。
So if you look at the first,。
the passage that came right before it,。
Jesus and disciples are on the other side of the lake。
and they have the feeding of the 4,000.。
It's an amazing miracle.。
4,000 people and others are fed in that miracle.。
At the end of that miracle, as oftentimes,。
after a healing or a beautiful miracle, Jesus is attacked.。
So people were coming and they were criticizing him.。
He has an altercation with the Pharisees。
and so they decide to get in the boat。
and go over here to Bethsaida.。
They get in the boat.。
The disciples realized, "We didn't bring any food。
"and we didn't bring any bread."。
Now, you wouldn't think that would be a problem, right?。
'Cause Jesus has just fed 4,000,。
but they were worried about it.。
And so Jesus gets in.。
Jesus is still thinking about the conversation he had。
with the Pharisees and he says to his followers,。
he says, "Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees."。
Now, what we know now is that leaven is,。
it's about the teaching.。
Beware of the teaching because bad teaching。
can get into a community like leaven and bread。
and spread throughout and it can cause。
all types of problems.。
So Jesus is saying that.。
The disciples think, "Oh, he said leaven.。
"We forgot the bread.。
"Jesus is upset with us because we forgot the bread."。
And I love this about the disciples。
and I also love that they wrote it about themselves。
because so often we're in the same boat。
with the disciples, right?。
And here's what Jesus says to them after that.。
He says, "Do you not yet perceive or understand?。
"Are your hearts hardened?。
"Having eyes, do you not see?"。
And then at the very end, "Do you not yet understand?"。
That's how we enter into this teaching today.。
That's what comes right before.。
Now we have to look at what comes afterwards.。
You look afterwards, there's this beautiful exchange。
where Jesus' fame is growing.。
People are talking about him all over the place.。
And so Jesus says to his disciples, he says,。
"Who do people say that I am?"。
And some say Isaiah, some say John the Baptist.。
And he said, "Who do you say I am?"。
And that's, of course, the key question of our faith。
is who do you say Jesus is?。
And then Peter nails it.。
He says, "You're the Christ."。
Okay, that's the first sign of seeing.。
They didn't have eyes, they didn't see.。
Now he sees you're the Messiah, you're the Christ.。
But then just a few passages after that,。
then Jesus is talking about he must suffer.。
And Peter says, "No, that's not what a Messiah does."。
And then Jesus says to Peter, "Get behind me, Satan."。
In other words, he hasn't seen fully.。
He hasn't seen fully.。
Now we begin to see a little bit of what Mark and Jesus。
is trying to teach his disciples.。
They're part of the they right there,。
but also what Mark is trying to see, show us,。
and teach us, this full vision.。
Because the full vision of Jesus involves the cross.。
And so Jesus would later say,。
"If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself。
"and take up the cross and follow me."。
Does that make sense?。
Okay, this is not Jesus says, "Yes, you can feed。
"4,000 people, you're going to be a very useful person。
"when we have picnics and we have dinners。
"and we have all of these things。
"that you can give us," right?。
It's gonna be the cross.。
And it's gonna be about us taking up the cross.。
This is about discipleship.。
But the same message is that Jesus wants us。
and his disciples to see, to see fully.。
How are we doing?。
How's this going?。
All right, doing okay?。
Yeah, should we all get up and dance and say,。
"Beauty to the left of me, beauty to the right."。
We might do, no thank you.。
Afterwards maybe, and we can do a special dance.。
But I wanna be clear here,。
and I don't want you to get me wrong,。
that when you have this full vision of God,。
it's all about suffering because it's not.。
It's all about life and it's about love.。
And when you have that encounter where Jesus says,。
"I wanna give you a full picture of myself,"。
there's beauty all around us.。
I remember as a 17-year-old, northern Nigeria, Zaria,。
one night having an encounter with Jesus Christ.。
And in that moment of just seeing God,。
who I'd heard about all my life,。
for who he was and the love he had for us,。
just remember feeling like energy and joy and light.。
And I saw things differently。
because I saw Jesus for who he was.。
And that's open to all of us, to see Jesus in that way.。
But it also, as soon as we begin to see Jesus。
for who we are, for who he is,。
as soon as we begin to see Jesus for who he is,。
it helps us understand some of our own suffering.。
Because beauty can come through very difficult times.。
We see that in everything.。
Tim Keller says this.。
Tim Keller, in his book, he says,。
"I can think," it's a book on prayer,。
"I can think of nothing great that is also easy."。
And he's talking about how hard prayer is,。
but that out of that comes this beautiful beauty。
and flourishing and greatness.。
And I think that's true。
if we think about it in our lives as well.。
It's definitely true in Jesus' life.。
If you've not decided to go ahead。
and read the Gospel of John,。
along with some of the other international churches。
and local churches here in Hong Kong for Lent,。
I recommend it to you.。
Basically, the church is just reading through,。
it's called the One Campaign,。
just reading through the Gospels.。
I've been reading them through John.。
It's good if you don't wanna read through John,。
read through a Gospel.。
This year, at least read through one Gospel.。
And if we're gonna follow Jesus Christ,。
we need to read the texts that mainly talk about him, amen?。
And if you wanna read four, that's even better,。
because you'll get stories like this。
that aren't in the other Gospels, right?。
But as we read, what we're gonna find is this.。
It's almost like every day was a Monday for Jesus.。
Every day was a tough day, right?。
Every day, he's doing these amazing things.。
He's healing people,。
where people should be standing up and cheering,。
but they're not.。
They're coming and saying, "Why do you do that?。
"By what right do you do that?。
"Who are you?"。
And there's this attacking and testing all the time, right?。
But here's something that beautiful,。
as that happens in that testing,。
beauty comes out of it.。
Just one example where one day, a lawyer came,。
and the text tells us he came to test Jesus.。
And he said, "What's the greatest commandment?"。
And Jesus gives this beautiful response。
that resonates today,。
and that can get you through this day,。
and that is love God, love others, love yourself.。
That's what life's about.。
And that came out of a time of testing。
with great, great beauty.。
So my prayer today is this,。
that we would just pray,。
God, enlarge our vision,。
and open our eyes.。
We do not want to see you partially.。
We don't want a partial sight of God.。
We want to see the full,。
whatever we can contain,。
whatever we can hold,。
and we know we can't maybe hold all of it.。
We want to see all of you, Jesus,。
because when we do that,。
it's gonna help our relationship with others.。
Now we're gonna go a little deeper, okay?。
Because here's what I found.。
If we have a distorted or a partial image of God,。
we're gonna have us distorted。
in a partial image of others and ourself as well.。
Here's something that you may not notice。
reading this through,。
but it seems the man was not born blind, right?。
Because he kinda knew what a tree was,。
and he kinda knew what people looked like,。
and he knew that the level of sight that he had。
was people walking around like trees.。
And then later, just to confirm it,。
says Jesus restored his sight.。
So somewhere along the way,。
he had lost his ability to see.。
And at this point, before the second touch,。
he has this distorted way of looking at people.。
Matthew 6:22 says this,。
right in the middle of the Sermon on the Mount,。
and it says, "The eye of the lamp of the body,。
"so if your eye is healthy,。
"your whole body will be full of light."。
And then Jesus gives the other side,。
but if your eye is bad,。
your whole body will be filled with darkness.。
And here's where I wonder。
if some of us need our eyes restored.。
And I know in my situation, I do.。
Because this passage,。
so if your eye is healthy,。
your whole body will be filled with light.。
The word healthy there has this sense of generous。
or gracious, like in a big, healthy portion。
of pudding or dessert or whatever we say,。
that's a healthy portion, right?。
Or that's a generous portion, that's a gracious portion.。
That's the eyes of the Father when he looks on us.。
And when we have a whole view of how God sees,。
then we tend to see the others with a healthy perspective,。
a healthy situation.。
But if we have a distorted vision,。
if our eye is not healthy, not gracious, not whatever,。
then we're going to see things in a distorted way.。
We're gonna see it at the level。
of people walking around like trees.。
They're kind of objects and distorted.。
And maybe we see them as enemies。
or maybe someone to overcome。
or someone that's getting in our way。
or someone that annoys us or someone to,。
whatever it is, that's how we view a situation。
or people, and the consequence is。
our body becomes full of darkness, right?。
Then we have this regret, this we have this anger,。
then we have this whatever's going on in that relationship.。
So here's my cry for us today is that we would go to Jesus。
and say, "Jesus, we want a healthy way of looking at things.。
"We want to see you in a healthy way,。
"and then we want to see others in that healthy way,。
"and love God, love others, love self.。
"We want to see ourselves in a healthy way."。
Because if we're not seeing ourselves in a healthy way,。
and this is a huge issue on the campuses,。
then this will be filled with darkness as well.。
So may God give us healthy vision to see, amen?。
'Cause then there's that full vision,。
and then we can see in a way that is of God,。
that is of Jesus.。
Abraham Lincoln was a leader in the US during the Civil War,。
and he was known for being a leader of character.。
Character was important to him,。
and he was also known for bringing sides together.。
In his cabinet, there were people who were。
from the other party, he tried to bring people together.。
There's a little story about him.。
I don't know if it's historically accurate,。
but it ties with his character.。
And the story is this, that Lincoln was there。
talking with one of his assistants,。
and he said about another person, he says,。
"I don't like that man.。
"I don't like that man."。
And then he said to his assistant,。
"I need to get to know him better.。
"I don't like that man.。
"I need to get to know him better."。
What he's talking about there is respect,。
because the word respect is re, again,。
and speck, spectacles, it's a see.。
He's gonna see him again.。
He's gonna take another look.。
He's gonna try to take a healthy vision.。
And I wonder if that's the case with us as well,。
in some of the situations we find ourselves in.。
There's a beautiful story that is a rabbinic tale,。
and I think it's a tale of our times.。
And the rabbinic tale goes like this.。
Usually with rabbinic tales, they're about rabbis,。
and they're kind of fun tales,。
but the rabbi is walking with his students.。
And he's walking his students.。
It's basically a style of teaching where you just walk out,。
and then you ask questions,。
Socratic methods to the students.。
The students respond.。
So he asks the question.。
He says, "How can you tell when the night has gone。
"and the morning has come?"。
That's the question.。
How can you tell when the night has gone。
and the morning has come?。
And so one of his students, the bright one,。
is just right away, just raising his hand,。
saying, "Oh, oh, oh, Rabbi, I know."。
And he says, "Rabbi, is it when, at that time,。
"right between night and day,。
"is it at that time where you can look in the distance。
"and tell the difference between a sheep and a goat?"。
And it's a pretty good answer, right?。
And then the rabbi says, "No."。
And then the second one, the second brightest,。
sees his opportunity to become the first brightest,。
and he steps in, and he says, "Rabbi, Rabbi,。
"is it when I can look in the distance。
"and then tell the difference between a fig tree。
"and an olive tree, then I know that the night has gone。
"and the morning has come?"。
And the rabbi says, "No."。
And so then they say, "Tell us, Rabbi,。
"how can we know that the night has come,。
"night has gone and the morning has come?"。
And the rabbi says this.。
He says, "It's when you can look in the face。
"of any man, any woman, any child,。
"and see the face of your brother or your sister,。
"because until then, we're all living in the darkness."。
And I think that speaks of our rabbi, Jesus, right?。
And Jesus would say, "Don't just hear it, but do it.。
"Do it."。
So that takes us to the final part of our what's,。
and that is kind of the now what.。
The now what's will be different, right?。
If we've been tracking with here,。
there might be things that God has already said,。
mm, I need to click on this and that.。
That might be your now what.。
But there's a few quick now what's, I think, for all of us.。
One is pray, pray, pray for Vision Sunday next Sunday,。
right?。
Andrew's already asked us to do that.。
Pray about how you'll be engaged,。
how you'll be involved.。
Pray about the financial support.。
Pray about what it's gonna mean for this community,。
and pray that our eyes would be opened。
by Jesus Christ himself to see what it is。
that he wants us to see, to see with intent.。
Remember that, stare intently?。
With the intent of not hearing the vision。
or hearing about it, but to live it out.。
That's the first thing.。
Second thing is, did you notice this kind of。
beautiful throwaway line in the middle of our passage。
where it says, "Some people brought a man to Jesus," right?。
Be some people.。
Be one of those some people, right?。
Some of you here, I know you're a part of that some people,。
'cause I've seen you every week kind of bringing people,。
and you tell me about people you had dinner with,。
and bring them to whatever's comfortable with you,。
but bring them into the presence of Jesus Christ.。
Because Psalm 36, nine says, "By your light we see light."。
Jesus is the light of the world,。
and when we come, he comes to us not only as a healer,。
healing any blind spots, healing any distorted perceptions,。
healing any of that, but he also provides the light to see.。
So bring, continue to bring people into the presence.。
Be that some people.。
And the third thing is, don't forget to bring yourself.。
Don't forget to bring yourself.。
Because we all have blind spots.。
We all have parts of, that are partial seeing.。
But as we come with that yearning desire,。
Jesus, open my eyes to see you more fully。
in this time where I'm at,。
then we can have this healthy eye.。
And I'd also say, don't be too hard on yourself, right?。
There are times when all of us, myself included,。
we're right there in the boat with the disciples,。
thinking Jesus is talking about bread,。
and he's talking about something。
maybe completely different, right?。
But the disciples got it.。
They didn't stay at partial vision.。
They went to full vision, and we can as well.。
Paul wants to encourage us, and he says this.。
He says, "He who began a good work in you,。
he will carry it on to completion."。
We can be sure of that.。
Amen?。
Will you pray with me?。
(soft music)。
Let me invite you to close your eyes,。
just maybe help you focus,。
and also to give some privacy to your neighbor,。
and maybe not just rush off,。
but take a moment here。
in what can be a busy time of year,。
and if God has been speaking to you。
in any part of the worship, the prayers, the preaching,。
go there, and then begin a conversation with God,。
whatever it is, to say,。
God, I need to see this situation differently.。
I need a healthy and generous, a great,。
I need to see God, whatever that is,。
wherever that is, whoever that is.。
Maybe go there, wherever the Spirit leads you,。
that's where change happens,。
and change often comes out of tough times.。
The man went home differently,。
and we wanna go home differently.。
And if you're here, and you've never really encountered。
Jesus as the living God,。
I invite you to do that,。
to just talk to Him about that,。
say, I've never seen you that way before,。
but I want to see,。
I want to see who you are fully.。
I wanna see myself through the eyes of love.。
I wanna see others through the eyes of love,。
and just have that conversation.。
(gentle music)。
Thank you.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(music fades)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
