Well, it's good to see you all and to be back.。
I am excited about Christmas.。
I'm excited about introducing Christmas traditions。
to my baby girl, Ellie.。
In Germany, they have a tradition.。
It's a Christmas calendar,。
but it's not the chocolate calendar.。
It's like it's a calendar that has big pockets。
and every day there's actually。
quite a significant gift in there.。
So I'm ready.。
That's my one decoration.。
(laughs)。
But anyhow, hey, it's good to see you.。
Now, when I was in university,。
and I feel like I've been talking about university a lot,。
so it's like far in the past,。
I did what university students do.。
I studied, I played basketball,。
and I hung out with my friends.。
Now, there was one semester or one season。
where I really studied a lot,。
like all the time.。
And my friends, they went on these exciting road trips.。
They went to Vancouver, you know, Canada on a road trip.。
They did all sorts of stuff,。
but I didn't go 'cause I needed to study,。
or I felt like I needed to study.。
And so I missed out on all these fun trips.。
I missed out on hanging out with my friends.。
And when I look back at that time,。
I actually think that I chose the wrong thing。
because I should have spent time with my friends。
instead of studying.。
Now, I know I'm in Hong Kong.。
I am aware.。
There's a lot of parents from Hong Kong here.。
And I do believe studying is important.。
I did study.。
I was a good student, so I actually got good grades,。
but what I'm actually talking about。
is I studied excessively。
'cause there was a fear inside of me somehow。
that I needed to do more in order to do well.。
And it actually kept me from really enjoying my friendships,。
and it kept me from having better relationships。
with my friends.。
Now, luckily, I didn't do that throughout all university,。
but I did it for a part of my studies.。
But isn't that interesting how we can invest ourselves。
in the things that we think are so important。
at that moment in our lives?。
You know, you take all the time,。
you take all the energy, maybe even a lot of resources,。
and then when we look back at those things,。
we realize that they really did not matter that much。
or that they're really not that important.。
And so for me, it was studying excessively。
didn't improve my grades,。
lowered the quality of my friendships.。
I mean, that was basically it.。
For a lot of us, I believe it's working excessively, right?。
There's this saying I used to put as a screensaver。
on my phone that says,。
"Nobody ever regrets spending,"。
wait, how does it go?。
(audience laughing)。
Let me get this right.。
Nobody, well, let me just,。
I'm not gonna remember this.。
Basically, it's the moral of the story.。
How about that?。
The moral of the story is this,。
that when we're at the end of our lives,。
we never wish that we would have spent。
more time at the office.。
Finally, we landed there, right?。
Took me a while, but I made it, yes.。
(audience applauding)。
Got a little confused there in my brain.。
And the thing is, why do we work so much?。
Is it sometimes maybe it's to please someone,。
sometimes it's because we want promotion,。
we're chasing after better income for our family,。
and up to a certain degree, that can be okay,。
but there is also an excessiveness。
to that a lot of times in us.。
Other ways that we might invest ourselves in things,。
maybe there's some relationships that are not that important。
but for some reason, they absorb all our time and our energy,。
and so we give people all our time and energy。
instead of the ones that we should give it to.。
Now, I don't know what you're investing yourself in,。
what you're spending your time on,。
what you're using your energy for,。
but what I wanna explore with you today。
is how can we make investments that truly matter?。
How can we focus on using our energy, our resources,。
our time, and put it in the place。
that actually is really important?。
So that when we look back, we don't have to say,。
"Oh my gosh, what did I do?。
"I missed out on all these fun road trips."。
You know, and we have to be bummed,。
that's quite, you know, I can get over that one,。
but there's other things, you know,。
where there can be great regrets,。
and we can miss out greatly on, of course,。
also especially what actually God has for us.。
And so we're continuing in our sermon series,。
Living the Kingdom Parables.。
We've been looking every week。
at one of the parables of Jesus.。
Part of it, what we're looking to do。
is to be challenged by them,。
you know, for Jesus to challenge us。
in our attitudes and our thinking,。
and so that we can respond and align ourselves,。
you know, to his kingdom values,。
and we can shift our perspective,。
we can live differently in light of,。
you know, Jesus' teaching.。
And so I wanna encourage us。
as we go now more into the message,。
actually to open your heart and say,。
"Lord, I wanna be challenged by you.。
"I wanna hear from you what you have to say to me."。
And so, actually, let me pray for us.。
Let me pray a prayer over us.。
Heavenly Father, we are here。
because we wanna hear from you.。
We desperately need to hear from you.。
We wanna have you speak into our lives。
and say yes to what you have for us,。
because what you have is always the best.。
So will you prepare our hearts now。
to receive what you have?。
I praise in your name, Jesus.。
Amen. - Amen.。
- So we're in the Gospel of Luke,。
and I just wanna set the context。
before we go into a specific parable.。
So there is, the context is,。
it actually says there's thousands of people.。
Around Jesus.。
And Jesus is teaching his disciples.。
So it's kind of like he's teaching his disciples。
and everybody else is listening to him。
teaching his disciples.。
And the topic that he's teaching on。
is actually on obstacles to discipleship,。
like things that keep you from following Jesus,。
that can derail you in your journey of being a Christian.。
And the thing that Jesus talks right before we get。
to the text that we're gonna look at。
is he talks about fearing God, about fearing man,。
and he talks about being faithful to him,。
even in persecution.。
You know, even when we face persecution,。
that we are faithful to Jesus.。
And so then he moves to the next obstacle,。
and that's where we're gonna pick up.。
So we're in Luke chapter 12, starting in verse 13,。
it says this.。
Someone in the crowd said to him,。
"Teacher, tell my brother, divide inheritance with me."。
Jesus replied, "Man, who appointed me judge。
"or an arbiter between you?"。
Then he said to them, "Watch out.。
"Be on your guard against all kinds of greed.。
"Life does not consist in abundance of possessions."。
So we're gonna walk through this piece by piece.。
So I'm not reading everything to you right now.。
But here's a man, maybe he interrupts Jesus,。
maybe he just sees the moment when Jesus is quiet。
for one second, he jumps in,。
and he brings a request to Jesus.。
And he asks Jesus to make a ruling over inheritance,。
I guess, fight or conflict。
that him and his brother are having.。
Now, why does he come to Jesus with that?。
Well, if you notice, he addresses Jesus as a teacher.。
So people around Jesus, they saw him as a teacher。
with authority, a teacher also of the law, a rabbi.。
And at that time, all the rules regarding even inheritance,。
they were in the Torah, they were in the first five books。
of the Bible, of the Hebrew scripture.。
And so a lot of times rabbis and teachers,。
they made actually rulings, they made judgments,。
and then made decisions, helped the community,。
sorted out things.。
Might be a little bit like a pastor。
helping two conflicting parties settle an issue.。
And what's interesting though,。
is the man that approaches Jesus,。
if we pay close attention,。
he actually doesn't ask Jesus to mediate.。
He wants Jesus to do what's on his agenda.。
He wants him to make a ruling that inheritance is divided.。
You know, so he comes to Jesus,。
he wants Jesus to fulfill his plans, his purposes.。
He's actually not interested in anything else.。
He just wants Jesus to do what he wants him to do.。
And one thing with that is,。
you know, that he's not interested。
in restoring his relationship with his brother.。
He just wants to get his, he wants to get his inheritance.。
He wants to get what he thinks is owed to him,。
and there is no room for another perspective.。
He just wants Jesus to do what he wants him to do.。
And Jesus, you know, being wise, being discerning,。
you know, he decides not to do a ruling,。
not to do a judging, but then instead,。
he actually turns around and he starts teaching everyone.。
So not just the man who asked him a question,。
not just the disciples,。
but he's speaking to the whole crowd.。
And what he says to them is,。
we find in verse 15, he says,。
"Watch out, be on your guard against all kinds of greed.。
"Life does not consist in abundance of possessions."。
Now just imagine yourself, you bring an issue to Jesus,。
and then Jesus uses that as a springboard。
and starts teaching everyone around you.。
And he kind of implies, you know,。
that your requests involved some greed.。
Makes us feel a little uncomfortable, right?。
But why does Jesus bring it to everyone?。
Because greed, it's a human issue.。
It's actually something that not just this man。
needs to hear about,。
it's something that everyone needs to hear about.。
'Cause we all, to one degree or another, have heart issues,。
you know, when it comes to possessions and money。
and inheritance and all those things.。
And so Jesus addresses everyone.。
Now at this point in time,。
it's also important to remember。
when Jesus addresses something like that,。
he never does it to shame or to put down.。
He does it because he wants to bring life,。
he wants to bring wholeness。
to an area in our lives that is broken.。
He wants to do something new,。
he wants to do something better.。
And so we just need to keep that in mind。
as we walk through the story.。
So Jesus starts warning us against greed。
and actually false narratives that we believe.。
He says in verse 15,。
"Life does not consist in abundance of possessions."。
But we actually believe that it does, right?。
We actually believe that life or abundant life。
exists in abundance of possession.。
And so he's starting to address this,。
this lie, this narrative that we hold that,。
if I only have this much money,。
if I only have this house or this whatever,。
you know, then I will be okay,。
then I will live the good life.。
But Jesus, you know, is saying that's not true.。
You know, abundant life does not consist in these things.。
Well, let's continue in the story, verse 16.。
And he told him this parable,。
"The ground of a certain rich man。
yielded an abundant harvest.。
He thought to himself, 'What shall I do?。
I have no place to store my crops.'。
Then he said, 'This is what I will do.。
I will tear down my barns and build bigger ones.。
And there I will store my surplus grain.。
And I'll say to myself,。
'You have plenty of grain laid up for many years.。
Take life easy, eat, drink, and be merry.'"。
Now, in this parable,。
you know, there's a rich man, we're not told why he's rich.。
There's no hint that he did anything unethical.。
You know, he didn't somehow do some shady, dirty deals。
and screw somebody over.。
But we're just told he's wealthy.。
And then there's another thing that happens.。
There's an abundant harvest.。
So on top of being already rich,。
his ground, you know, from whatever land he owned,。
is yielding just an absolutely incredible harvest,。
much more than expected or would be usual.。
So he's already rich,。
and now he gets this extra stuff on top of it.。
And this creates a challenge for him.。
You know, what is he going to do with it?。
And it's interesting because we're actually let in。
on this inner dialogue in the parable。
where we can hear his thoughts.。
It's kind of scary, right?。
If we could hear each other's thoughts.。
But we get to hear his thoughts.。
So good it's that way around, not the other way around.。
And we get to listen into his own inner dialogue.。
And so he's like, "Oh, what am I going to do?"。
You know, with all this extra crop?。
Because there's a problem.。
His barns are full.。
And it's plural.。
He has, you know, multiple barns.。
He doesn't just have one, he has multiple ones.。
And so he comes up with a solution.。
I'm going to tear them down.。
I'm going to do bigger ones.。
I'm going to store it up.。
And then he concludes the whole thing with saying that,。
you know, and when that's done,。
he can enjoy his life and leisure and eat, drink,。
and be merry.。
That's his plan.。
You know, that's his conversation.。
And from our perspective,。
if we would not know that Jesus beforehand。
talks about greed,。
if we just would hear the story in a different context,。
we actually would be quite impressed with this man.。
Wow, you know, here's somebody who can scale a business.。
Here's somebody who can be prudent and build wealth.。
If there was a YouTube video or something,。
we're like, wow, you know, this guy's like,。
he made it from like not having as much。
and he built his business empire.。
You know, that's impressive.。
Now, because this is in the context of Jesus teaching,。
we know what comes before, we know there's some issue.。
But what is it?。
You know, what is the issue that Jesus is addressing here?。
Well, if you pay close attention to the inner dialogue,。
we start getting a hint at what the problem is.。
And it actually reveals to us, you know,。
some of the values and some of the motivations。
that this man's holding in his heart.。
So if you notice, there's all these I and my statements.。
You know, it's all about him.。
It's all about what he has done.。
It's all his.。
It's like my crops, my abundance, my surplus, myself.。
Actually, the word translated here is myself is my soul.。
You know, it's all my, my, my, I, I, I.。
There is no thought of anyone else。
and there is no thought of God.。
You know, there's an absence of acknowledgement of God.。
So this goes in contrast, you know,。
to what Psalm 24 once says,。
says the earth is the Lord's and everything in it,。
the world and all who live in it.。
Which means that actually, you know,。
God has created everything.。
And all that we have, including our life,。
our breath, our health, whatever possessions we have,。
everything is a gift from God.。
Every single thing.。
Now we a lot of times think we did it ourselves.。
You know, but everything we have is a gift from God.。
And this man, you know, there is no God in his equation.。
I mean, he thinks it's all him.。
So this is where the twist comes into the parable.。
Verse 20, but God said to him,。
you fool, this very night,。
your life will be demanded from you.。
Then who will get what you have prepared for yourself?。
This is how it will be with whoever stores up things。
for themselves, but is not rich towards God.。
So while most of us, you know,。
when we look at this story, what made me think, wow,。
a prudent, successful businessman。
who knows how to scale a business and accumulate wealth。
and do something good, God calls him a fool.。
You fool.。
It's quite a different verdict than we would expect, right?。
It's also quite strong language, right?。
To be called a fool.。
So why does God call this man a fool?。
Well, God calls this man a fool。
because all of his investments,。
all of his wealth is directed towards himself.。
It's all for himself.。
There's no thought of neighbor.。
You know, it's all about himself.。
And he just cares about himself.。
He just invests the money on himself.。
He doesn't think of anyone else.。
There's no acknowledgement of God.。
There is, he actually sees his money as a security.。
You know that, you can see that in his plans, right?。
He has a plans that like, I will live the abundant life.。
I'm going to eat, drink, be merry, enjoy my wealth.。
So he actually placed his faith in his possessions,。
but he lacks faith in God.。
And he thinks that his possessions。
will give him the security of his anxious heart,。
that the possessions will make sure。
that he's going to be okay.。
But when it comes to the end of his life,。
they actually don't deliver.。
And the lie is exposed.。
That so many of us, that we actually kind of believe, right?。
If we're honest.。
And then in verse 20, we find out that God tells him,。
you know, this very night, your life will be demanded of you.。
And it's actually interesting。
'cause the literal Greek says your soul,。
you know, before he says my soul.。
And then now he says that even our life,。
you know, something that we steward.。
And it will be demanded of you.。
And then he asked a question,。
and who will get what you have prepared for yourself?。
Who's going to have your stuff?。
And at this time, it just shows the emptiness,。
the spiritual bankruptcy with which he stands before God.。
You know, because that's not his question anymore.。
He has different concerns on it this time.。
He has different questions on it at this point.。
And then Jesus concludes by saying,。
you know, gives like a wisdom saying,。
he says this is how it will be。
with whoever stores up things for themselves,。
but is not rich towards God.。
And so there's a contrast.。
There's like storing up things towards yourself。
versus being rich towards God.。
And he's saying, you know, that's a consequence。
when we're just all about ourselves.。
When we try to find a security in possessions and wealth,。
when we try to find power, significance, influence,。
you know, whatever it is.。
For people, money means different things for people,。
possessions mean different things for people.。
And whatever it is that we're trying to find in it,。
it does not deliver if it's just direct towards ourself.。
So Jesus then concludes that, you know,。
this man made a disastrous investment.。
And actually kind of ends open-ended。
because we don't know what he does.。
We don't know what he says.。
Now, suddenly we don't hear his inner dialogue anymore.。
And actually it's meant for ourselves to think about,。
you know, what's inside of our, what's our inner dialogue?。
You know, what are we saying to ourselves?。
And so while the man in the parable。
didn't acknowledge God at all,。
many of us here, we actually do.。
Not all of us, but many of us here do.。
But nonetheless, we're not immune。
to the chasing after riches。
and trying to secure a future。
through the accumulation of wealth.。
We also believe that false narrative,。
even as Christians, right?。
That possessions, they're gonna solve our problems.。
They're gonna give us security。
so we can finally rest, not be anxious.。
Possessions are gonna give us significance.。
People are gonna listen to me.。
I'm gonna have influence.。
Possessions are gonna give us power。
so we can have an impact, you know, whatever it is.。
And we believe that.。
And they do to a certain degree.。
But in the end, they never fully deliver.。
And contrary to what Jesus says,。
that life does not consist in abundance of possession,。
we think it does.。
You know, we actually believe that it does.。
If you picture an abundant life, what do you picture?。
Exactly, right?。
And I have to be honest, I picture the same thing.。
But what Jesus is trying to bring a corrective,。
you know, to us.。
So money and possessions, they're idols.。
You know, they're idols of our heart.。
And Tim Keller, who was a well-known pastor in the US,。
he defines an idol this way.。
An idol is anything more important to you than God.。
Anything that absorbs your heart。
and imagination more than God.。
Anything you seek to give you what only God can give.。
And so in the parable, we see that this rich man,。
he is daydreaming.。
You know, his imagination is stirred by his possessions。
and by his wealth.。
And he dreams of how this will give him security,。
how this will give him a relaxing retirement.。
And, but it reveals, you know, that that's his idol.。
That's what he puts his faith really in.。
And I think with us, we've been talking about,。
there's a lot of theoretical in our Christian faith.。
We theoretically, you know, believe that。
abundant life is in God.。
But if we actually look at our life practice,。
we see a lot of times that we actually place our faith。
in other things.。
We actually place our faith in, you know, in our jobs。
or in our bank account or whatever it is,。
or your house that you own。
or working towards owning or whatever.。
And the man that came to Jesus, you know,。
with a request about his inheritance,。
he also thought that the inheritance。
is gonna deliver for him something, you know,。
whether it's that security again.。
And we all heard, or maybe even experienced personally。
yourself, like just horror stories of inheritance,。
you know, where there's horrible fighting,。
where relationships fall apart,。
where it's just brokenness and just destroys。
and devastates families.。
And again, it just shows that we hold this idol in our heart,。
you know, that we think this inheritance。
is gonna do something and we don't care about the relationship.。
We just wanna get ours, what we think is ours,。
and it doesn't matter if the relationship is destroyed.。
You know, and it's devastating.。
Now, what's interesting, when we think about greed,。
a lot of times we don't think of ourselves.。
Like I've heard several pastors say,。
"Nobody ever comes to me and confesses that they're greedy."。
You know, people share all sorts of things,。
you know, sexual brokenness, affairs,。
you know, broken relationships,。
whatever, you know, like having cheated someone,。
whatever it may be.。
But what this shows is that most of us。
actually don't think of ourselves as greedy.。
We don't think it's our issue,。
we think it's the other person's issue.。
And we can always find someone that we can point to, right?。
Can always find someone else where you can say,。
"Oh yeah, it's their issue, but it's not my issue."。
But here, Jesus, he's exposing these inner dialogues。
and things in our hearts.。
He's actually saying, "But actually it's all of our issue."。
You know, and Jesus is calling us。
to bring this issue to him。
so that we can overcome this issue。
by the power of Jesus in our lives,。
and that we can live lives that are rich towards God,。
not just rich towards ourselves.。
Now, I had a financial transaction。
that I was trying to,。
or like a business thing that I was trying to do,。
and it fell through in the last moment.。
And I was so angry.。
I'm a very relaxed person.。
I know a lot of you don't know me that well.。
I'm a very relaxed person.。
I don't get very angry most of the time.。
But I was super angry.。
And then as I suddenly realized my strong emotions,。
I was like, "Whoa, what's going on here?。
Why am I so upset?"。
And the truth is, you know,。
because I placed hope in this investment。
that it would do something for me。
that actually only God can do.。
You know, I thought this thing will bring me security.。
I thought this thing will bring me significance,。
but it doesn't.。
You know, that is only found in God,。
your significance, your security.。
And so when our faith is in other things besides God,。
it's hard to live a life that's rich towards God。
'cause we're trying to hold on to our possessions.。
You know, we can't be generous to other people。
because we think these possessions are significant.。
So we grab onto them and we can't hold them loosely.。
And also keeps us from doing a lot of times。
the things that Jesus asked us to do,。
which maybe there's a brother or sister。
he wants us to be generous to.。
But if we think this thing will secure us,。
we can't let it go.。
We can't be generous to that person.。
And Jesus, he wants to break the power。
of this grip of greed in our lives.。
He wants us to be free.。
Earlier, you were saying about freedom.。
So we can be free to love other people.。
We can be free to reflect a character of God,。
of generosity towards others.。
That it doesn't just have to be about ourselves。
and we don't have to direct all this wealth。
or whatever it is towards us.。
And by the way, this can be anyone.。
You can be rich or poor,。
and we still struggle with the same heart issue.。
You know, it's not about who has a lot。
or who doesn't have much.。
We all struggle with greed.。
It's a heart issue for all of us.。
And then Jesus, actually, we're not gonna read further,。
I'm gonna tell you what happens afterwards.。
He talks about not being anxious。
'cause our loving Father cares for us。
and to seek first his kingdom.。
And then all these things will be added unto you.。
And isn't that amazing that actually God promises us。
that when we are generous,。
when we live a life that's of love and serving our labors。
and making investments in the kingdom,。
that he will provide for us.。
He actually will give us what we need.。
It doesn't mean that he's gonna not give us a yacht。
or something like that,。
but he will provide for us what we need.。
He will take care of us.。
So seeking the kingdom,。
if we make that a priority in our lives,。
it means that we're willing to do God's will.。
And it means that we're following Jesus。
in all aspects of our lives.。
But if we're holding idols,。
how do they keep us from doing that?。
And so Jesus wants to free us。
so we can actually fully follow him,。
that we can fully live for him.。
And I just picture as a church,。
wouldn't it be amazing。
if we all just grow in seeking the kingdom。
and in obedience to Jesus and living generous lives。
and growing in generosity?。
I think it's a process a lot of times.。
It's not like most times,。
it's not just from one moment to the next。
that you completely change.。
What impact we as a community could have。
for God's kingdom would be amazing.。
I wanna see that.。
But in order to do that,。
we need faith and we struggle to trust God。
that he will care for us and that he will provide for us.。
So my sense for today is that Jesus wants to give us faith.。
That he actually wants to today release faith on us.。
He wants to give us trust。
so that we can courage us and live for him,。
that we don't have to live in fear.。
'Cause it's like we live by fear。
when we're holding on to possessions,。
we're living in fear.。
'Cause we think these things will deliver,。
but he's calling us to faith in him.。
That he loves you, he loves us,。
he loves our heavenly father, loves his children.。
He will provide for us.。
As I was thinking about it,。
I was reminded of being in the US as a child.。
I couldn't swim.。
When I was a little kid,。
we were at some friends that lived in a apartment complex.。
They had a swimming pool。
like you know that people who live there can use.。
And so I remember like running and jumping。
in a swimming pool even though I couldn't swim.。
It's not a good idea, right?。
But the reason why I could do it。
was because my father was there.。
'Cause he caught me.。
Because I knew I could trust him,。
I could rely on him,。
I could take the step of faith,。
you know, and jump there。
because he would take care of me,。
would help me get back to the edge of the pool.。
I even went on the diving board,。
you know, and jumped in.。
But it was just because I knew my father had my back.。
And in a similar way,。
when we know just the father's love,。
when we know the saving love and care of Jesus in our lives,。
it frees us to be generous and loving towards others.。
You know, we can have that same type of faith。
where we can just dive in。
because we know he loves us,。
he will take care of us,。
we can be bold.。
But if we don't know his love,。
if we don't believe it,。
if we struggle to trust his heart.。
So I also believe that today God wants。
to reveal his love to us.。
You know, that the reality of his love。
can break over our lives.。
That we can start living differently,。
that we can start living generously,。
beautifully, abundantly,。
and be rich towards God。
and seek his kingdom first。
and make incredible investments in his kingdom。
and see God do things that have eternal,。
you know, consequences,。
that make an eternal difference.。
So how can I be rich towards God。
and invest,。
how can we be rich towards God。
and invest ourselves in what truly matters?。
I wanna invite the worship team to come up.。
How can we take the step of actually living。
in this radical generosity。
that Jesus calls us to,。
where we're not just about。
accumulating things for ourselves,。
but we're not living in fear,。
but where we can live in faith.。
How do we actually do that?。
Well, the first thing is,。
it's not about trying harder.。
You know, it's not about,。
I'm gonna try harder to be more generous。
and give a little and give a little of my time,。
give a little of my energy,。
give a little bit of my money.。
No, it's actually acknowledging,。
it's surrendering to Jesus.。
It's like, I can't do this.。
And I need you.。
And it's also asking Jesus,。
I've been holding this idol in my heart。
that I think delivers what only you can give.。
Will you forgive me for this?。
And will instead, will you show me your love for me?。
Will you show me that you care for me,。
that you provide for me,。
that you will give me what I need?。
And then as that reality breaks over our lives,。
as the spirit of God makes that known to us,。
we can ask him, Lord,。
how do you want me to be generous this week?。
What do you want me to do?。
How can I show love towards people around me?。
Maybe how can I show love towards people。
here in this church community?。
How can I show love towards people in my family。
and outside, the wider Yuen Long community?。
And then when God reveals to you what to do,。
take the step of faith,。
you jump into the pool and you do it.。
And you trust that he will work through it,。
but you also trust that you're not gonna suffer loss。
because of it,。
but that you are gonna live a life。
that's rich towards God.。
So I wanna invite everyone to stand.。
I would love to pray over us.。
If, I wanna invite you to really think about right now,。
am I seeking his kingdom first。
or is there other things I'm seeking after?。
Am I seeking his kingdom first。
or are there other things I'm seeking after?。
And if you just say, Jesus, I wanna seek your kingdom,。
but I'm struggling to trust you that you are truly good,。
that you will truly deliver, that you will truly provide,。
I just wanna invite you to stretch out your hand。
as an expression of just openness to God。
and just a desire and a surrender to him.。
Like I wanna seek you, I wanna live for you.。
I don't want these idols to rule in my heart.。
I want you, Jesus, to rule my heart.。
And let me pray over you.。
Jesus, I thank you so much。
that you love us so incredibly much.。
Lord, you know all of our journeys.。
You know every single heart in this room.。
You know the things that we hold dear,。
that we think will provide for us, deliver things for us,。
give us security.。
But I just pray that everything is a lie。
that you expose that right now.。
That you help us instead to turn our hearts to you。
and place our faith and our trust in you.。
I ask Holy Spirit that you will come right now。
and reveal your love to us,。
the love of the Father who doesn't abandon his children,。
who doesn't give bad gifts, he gives good gifts.。
It's the Father that will add these things unto you。
when you live that radical life of generosity。
and radical life of faith, of following him,。
of doing the things Jesus calls us to do.。
Or will you pour out this faith。
and this courage in our hearts?。
Will you forgive us for greed where we failed you?。
But will you help us by your Spirit to live differently?。
Will you strengthen us by your grace?。
Will you help us to be people of faith, not people of fear?。
And we know that it's your Spirit's work.。
It's not we can't do this out of our own strength, Lord.。
So will you come right now,。
will you help us to be seekers of your kingdom。
as a community?。
I pray all this in your name, Jesus.。
Amen.。
Let's worship.。
(upbeat music)。
