All right, I hope everybody is settling.。
Now before we continue our service, we have a few announcements.。
And first of all, as you saw earlier, we have witnessed together as a family a baby dedication.。
So if you were wondering, oh, what is baby dedication, and whether your child, if you。
would like your child to have a baby dedication as well, we welcome you to talk to our pastoral。
team, Ivan and team as well, to talk more about it, to understand more and see how we。
can do it as a family together.。
Okay, so you're more than welcome to do so.。
Now, second announcement is that we're going to have bring your own lunch today.。
Yes, make some noise for that.。
Oh, no, thank you.。
Thanks Andrew.。
Now bring your own lunch.。
It's our practice, because we really treasure us getting to know each other.。
So this is a once a month event where we welcome all of you after English service, you go grab。
your food, your favorite food around here, and then you bring your food back here, and。
we get to have a meal together.。
Now we had an invitation earlier when we talked about bring your own lunch.。
Today, I want to invite for those who are coming, maybe you're still deciding, I want。
to invite you to perhaps take a courage to chat with one or two people that you don't。
know, sit with them, have a meal with them.。
You know, as we were talking about bless, how we can, you know, bless our neighbors,。
the first thing is, one of the things is eat with them, listen to them, ask them questions,。
have been known and also known other people as well.。
So I'm going to send the invitation.。
I hope you receive it and you do it as well.。
All right.。
So we will also need helpers to help set up the tables and all that.。
So if you would like to stay in or even you would like to just help out, we need that.。
Okay.。
So after service, you can help us set up the venue.。
It would be really good.。
Okay.。
And the next and the last announcement of today is we've been having starting new ministries。
and we are going to start our youth ministry.。
Let's make some big voice for that.。
We've been praying for this.。
We've been preparing for this for time and now this is happening.。
Now youth, if there's youth among us, I see many very youthful faces.。
We invite you to, you know, scan the QR code and join our first youth event.。
Now what we're going to do in this event, it's basically just for us to get to know。
you, you get to know us and know each other.。
And we hope to in the future, continually, regularly meet together because we really,。
that's one of our vision to really serve the youth here as well.。
All right.。
So if you're already signed up, I know a lot of you already signed up.。
Really amazing.。
The next step you can do is to invite your friends, invite your school friends or invite。
your kids or even your neighbor's kids.。
All right.。
So that's what you can do.。
Now, if you're not youth, you're like, nah, I don't have a kid or anything.。
What you can do is pray for us.。
Pray for us as a family.。
Pray for this ministry.。
Pray for those youth who's going to come and all the teachers.。
You know, it's a new team and we're going to serve this, start this new ministry.。
There's a lot of unknown, but what is known is God is in control and this group belongs。
to God.。
Yeah.。
Amen.。
Lovely.。
Thank you very much.。
Now we're going to get into time of offering.。
Yes.。
Offering it's a way of how we continue our worship to God, to give him back of what he。
blessed us with.。
So we just encourage, you know, you've been here for a long time and you really want to。
take part of this.。
There's many, many ways you can do that.。
There's digital ways you can scan the QR code and we also have the bucket and there's some。
envelopes for you as well.。
And we also encourage if you would like to doing this monthly automatic payment that。
will help us as a church to be able to know the budget and so on.。
Yes.。
Can we all pray together for the offering?。
Yes.。
Father, we thank you for your provision.。
We thank you for your provision all along from a vision of a church plan vision to here.。
We are gathering here in the divine yin long in Hoshinle building and Lord, thank you for。
how you've been providing us financially, spiritually and people and all the helpers。
and everything that you provided us Lord.。
Lord, I pray that you bless the money and bless all the ministries that it's going on。
Lord.。
I pray that with you give us wisdom to run different ministry, to reach out to people。
that you've called us to reach out to Lord.。
We thank you and we trust you.。
We love you and in Jesus name together we say, Amen.。
All right.。
Thank you.。
All right.。
And today I'm going to invite John back on stage.。
Let's give him a big round.。
I'm always so excited to see him because I feel like his energy is just like mine.。
I'm like really surprised, right?。
But I feel like his energy is even more.。
I love that.。
Thank you for being here and lead us beautiful dedication.。
Of course.。
Can we all reach our hands and pray for him?。
Thank you Jesus and thank you Father for John, for what a faithful, humble servant and a。
leader and a friend and a father and yeah, and pastor to us Lord.。
And thank you for all that he's doing and all that you're doing in his life Lord.。
And thank you for all the talents and gifts you've given him.。
And Lord, I pray that you would continue to speak to him and that he would just share your。
words to us Lord and with such power and such boldness Lord.。
And Lord, I pray that you open our hearts to receiving words.。
Lord, we thank you and we just lift up this time to you.。
May you take lead and spirit.。
May you just fill his heart.。
In Jesus name we pray.。
Amen.。
Let's hear it for Francesca please.。
You're a ball of energy.。
I love it.。
I'm so thrilled to be here on this special day.。
Ellie's dedication and first birthday.。
Amazing.。
But above all, I'm here to ask you a question.。
A very important question.。
Who are you?。
I mean, who are you?。
You see, so often our identity is found in our job or our achievements or our role.。
And we get examples like we are Dorothy, head of regional banks and brokers at Bloomberg.。
Very impressive.。
Or Francesca.。
Actually she says, I'm an actor.。
You might have seen me on stage or even TV.。
Wow.。
Or my achievements.。
I'm a Stanford graduate or an MBA.。
I'm the top salesman in my company.。
I captained the school basketball team.。
Or our role.。
I'm a husband, a mother, a CG leader, a K4C helper and so on.。
But they are what you do.。
They are not who you are.。
You may have noticed Francesca very kindly introduced me as John today.。
I'm fed up with this guy called Pastor John because I go, Sandra, we go anywhere in Hong。
Kong, someone says, "Ah, Pastor John!"。
My name is not Pastor John.。
My identity is not what I do in church.。
When I ask you who you were, what I was really asking about was your identity.。
But I repeat with fear of repetition the question, who are you?。
Or more specifically, on what do you base your identity?。
In our passage today we read, I'll put it on the screen, "For in Christ Jesus you are。
all sons of God through faith.。
And if you are Christ's, then you are Abraham's offspring as according to the promise."。
Now as an aside here, for sons, you could take to include sons and daughters in our。
current context.。
But Paul deliberately used sons here as in ancient times it was only sons who were heirs,。
only sons could inherit.。
But the whole point of the letter to the Galatians is that Paul is telling them, "You are Abraham's。
offspring as according to promise."。
Even to a church that was confused about their identity in Christ, this was good news indeed.。
In that statement, "You are Abraham's offspring as according to the promise," Paul was making。
reference to the covenant that God had established with Abraham.。
And the sign of that covenant was circumcision.。
Look at this from Genesis 17, "Then God said to Abraham, 'As for you, you must keep my。
covenant, you and your descendants after you for the generations to come.。
This is my covenant with you and your descendants after you.。
The covenant you are to keep, every male should be circumcised."。
All the men in the congregation say, "Ouch."。
"You are to undergo circumcision and it will be the sign of the covenant between me and。
you."。
Paul in his teachings continually makes the point that under the new covenant where the。
law of Moses has been replaced by the grace of Jesus, physical circumcision has been replaced。
by a spiritual circumcision which is described in Romans 2 as a circumcision of the heart.。
Paul is reminding the Galatian church that the terms of the Abrahamic covenant have been。
fully fulfilled by Jesus and his death on the cross.。
And that whilst the old covenant, the law had been symbolized by the outward sign of。
circumcision, under the new covenant, a covenant of grace, it had become internalized.。
It had become a heart matter.。
But the Jewish Galatian church was still ignoring this.。
They were saying that circumcision was still a pre-requirement to be accepted by God.。
Might my words, this was a church in prison.。
Not a physical one like Stanley or Sheppick prison.。
But look at how Paul starts this passage.。
Verse 23, "Before the coming of the faith, we were held in custody under the law, locked。
up, locked up until the faith that was to come would be revealed.。
So the law was our guardian until Christ came that we might be justified by faith.。
Now this faith has come.。
We are no longer under a guardian."。
Let me give you an analogy.。
Suppose you are in Stanley or Sheppick prison and someone's come to bail you out and the。
prison door is open.。
You are free to leave.。
But you decide to stay put.。
You rather like the prison.。
The guards are friendly, yeah right.。
And your cellmates are a really great bunch.。
It sounds nonsensical.。
But this is exactly what the Galatian church was doing.。
And to be honest with you, not too dissimilar to many churches around Hong Kong and the。
world today.。
They had elevated the law above grace and were trying to earn God's favor by keeping。
all the rules and by doing good deeds.。
Paul had called them fools.。
He might say the same today.。
In fact, let's look back to last week and the beginning of the chapter.。
Verse 1, "You foolish Galatians!。
Who has bewitched you?。
Before your very eyes Jesus was clearly portrayed as crucified.。
I would just like to learn one thing from you.。
Did you receive the Spirit by the works of the law or by believing what you heard?。
Are you so foolish?。
After beginning by the means of the Spirit, you are now trying to finish by means of the。
flesh."。
And our passage today tells us very clearly four things.。
Number one, the law enslaves.。
Number two, the Spirit sets us free.。
Number three, we are all equal sharers in inheritance.。
And lastly, our relationship is a son, not a slave.。
Let's look at the context here.。
Paul is distressed that the Galatian church, the Gentile believers are being persuaded。
to adopt circumcision and the observance of Jewish law as necessary to inclusion as God's。
covenant people.。
He reminds the Galatians they receive the Spirit by believing the proclamation about。
Christ and not by doing works of the law.。
We would do well to remember this.。
Our faith is all about receiving, not achieving.。
Can I say that again?。
Church of Hong Kong, can I say this again?。
Our faith is all about receiving and not achieving.。
Now we can sit here today, I'm sure we are, foolish, foolish Galatians.。
But I ask us this, are we in the same boat?。
Have we turned the freedom in the Spirit purchased by the precious blood of Jesus into a set。
of rules?。
Have we turned the freedom in the Spirit purchased by the precious blood of Jesus into a set。
of rules?。
As a start, in order to remind the church in Galatia about their identity as children。
of God, Paul emphasizes the equality of all believers.。
The body of Christ, and we're a good representation today, is made up from believers of all tribes。
and tongues, and yet they are all one in Christ Jesus regardless of their race, gender, or。
financial status.。
Let's read it.。
For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ.。
There is neither Jew nor Greek.。
There is neither slave or free.。
There is no male or female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus.。
I've done a picture of my car parked here at the YMCA in Tsim Sha Tsui.。
I've been a board member of the YMCA now for 29 years, and I don't get too many perks,。
but one I get is to be able to park my car in Tsim Sha Tsui.。
That's very valuable.。
But look where I park it.。
Every time I park, "Father, may they be one as we are one."。
The words of Jesus.。
Whether in the ancient world or our modern world, there will always be people who regard。
themselves as superior to others.。
The Jews, they saw themselves as more important than the Gentiles because they thought they。
alone were God's covenant people for reasons I explained earlier.。
Free men looked down on slaves, and men perceived themselves as more superior to women.。
Fast forward a few centuries, and you will still find slavery, racial segregation, and。
the continued oppression of women in many cultures.。
But instead of elevating one group of people above another, Jesus taught the astonishing。
truth that all believers, all believers are equal, and unity can only be found in Him.。
This is because all human beings are equally enslaved to sin, and all who trust in Him。
receive His grace.。
We are all equal.。
We are sinners.。
But when we trust in Him, we receive His grace.。
He goes a stage further.。
Paul says this, "If you belong to Christ, then you are Abraham's seed and heirs according。
to the promise."。
Wow.。
First, we were slaves.。
Then we were adopted.。
And lastly, we've become heirs.。
But Paul further clarifies our identity by using the analogy of a child who had to wait。
for his inheritance until a date set by his father.。
This was to illustrate the sovereign act of God in calling His children to Himself.。
Let's read it.。
What I am saying is, as long as an heir is underage, he's no different from a slave.。
Although he owns the whole estate, the heir is subject to guardians and trustees until。
the time set by his father.。
So Paul is offering an illustration from the Roman custom of an heir of an entire estate。
who lives under a slave guardian as long as he is a child.。
He's saying he does not differ at all from a slave, though he is to all extent master。
of all.。
Now, the word "child" here is actually a small child.。
This person is too young to take the responsibility of adulthood.。
A slave or a guardian would tell this child when to get up or when to go to school.。
The guardian disciplined him in every respect.。
Now, the Roman custom did not specify an age when a person became ready for adulthood.。
The custom was this.。
When the father deemed the heir ready, he celebrated this time with a festival known。
as the Liberalia.。
It was held on March the 17th.。
At this time, the heir received his toga virilis, the coat of adulthood.。
And the boy would burn his childhood toys at this festival to symbolize his adulthood.。
In a complete reversal of roles, that person now has authority over the slave that governed。
him as a child.。
Now what Paul is saying is this, that a person who operates under the law is no different。
from a child who is heir to a wealthy estate and placed under the guardianship of a slave.。
Verse 3 says this, "So also, when we were under age, we were in slavery under the elemental。
spiritual forces of the world."。
He was a legal heir.。
Oh, yes.。
But he did not have the privilege of utilizing his legal rights to the estate.。
And the law was the guardian that watched over believers in the old covenant.。
I need to tell you this.。
A Christian who reverts to the law puts himself back under guardianship and slavery to the。
law.。
Can I say that again?。
A Christian who reverts to the law puts himself back under the guardianship and slavery to。
the law.。
But my friends, the good news is to come.。
Let's read it.。
"But when the set time had finally come, God sent his Son, born of a woman, born under。
the law, to redeem those under the law that we might receive adoption to sonship.。
Jesus came at a preordained time, set by the Father before the foundation of the world.。
He was sent to redeem those who were in slavery so they would be adopted into the Father's。
household."。
Let's read on.。
"Because you are his sons, God sent the spirit of his Son into our hearts, the spirit who。
calls out, 'Abba, Father.'。
So you are no longer a slave."。
I think we've sung those today.。
"But you are God's child.。
And since you are his child, God has made you also an heir."。
These verses are very, very important.。
Through adoption, they received an inheritance, the Holy Spirit, who enables believers to。
cry out, "Abba, Father, Daddy, Papa."。
Believers receive adoption not because of any act of merit, but purely through a sovereign。
work of God.。
So I ask you again, who are you?。
Do you see yourself foremost as your job title, your achievements, a husband or wife, a single。
or working woman?。
If you have repented and believed the gospel, then you are first and foremost a child of。
God.。
Can I say that again?。
You can say amen if you want to.。
If you have repented and believed the gospel, you are first and foremost a child of God.。
Thank you.。
I didn't prompt that, did I?。
It doesn't matter where you've come from or what you look like, for the gospel gives unity。
through diversity.。
The only way to love one another despite our differences is to see one another equally。
deserving of judgment, yet equally saved in Christ.。
Your identity as God's child means that you are free to embrace your role in church, your。
family, and society in such a way that you bring God glory without letting that role。
define who you are.。
The only solution to problems regarding race, class, and gender has always been the gospel.。
And the best biblical illustration is perhaps found in the story of the prodigal son.。
When the prodigal son went to his father and asked for his inheritance, what he was doing。
in effect, he was choosing to be an orphan.。
In Hebrew culture, he was regarding his father as dead.。
He was saying, when he said, "I want my inheritance," he was saying, "Father, I regard you as dead."。
But the truth is, he had left his home.。
Now we read the story, for a while he enjoyed his life.。
It was about wine, women, and song with his so-called friends.。
But the reality was the orphan lifestyle wasn't all it was cracked up to be.。
It never is.。
We often think that the grass is greener away from the father.。
His friends, in truth, were just other orphans.。
They used him, abused him, and then when he was of no more use to them, they abandoned。
him.。
He was left feeding the pigs.。
Now can you imagine, and can you imagine anything more abhorrent for a Jewish boy where pigs。
were unclean?。
He was left feeding the pigs.。
And he thinks to himself, "Even the servants in my dad's house live better than this.。
Oh, I've cut myself off from shunship, I know, but this is second best.。
It's much better than feeding the pigs.。
Maybe he'll take me back as a servant."。
It's a bit like us.。
We think to ourselves, "If God knew me as I really was, he'd never have me as his son。
or daughter."。
This is how so many people think.。
And it is wrong thinking.。
While the son has been away, the father has been on the porch, watching, waiting for his。
son to come home.。
And note this, the son had said, in effect, "You are no longer my father."。
The father has never said, never said that you are no longer my son.。
He's been waiting and waiting.。
Next we see that the son got partially in.。
"Dad, I've sinned.。
I'm ashamed.。
I'm unworthy of your name."。
But then he shows his father's love is not fully revealed to him.。
He says, "Take me back as your servant."。
I need to tell you today, our God is not looking for servants, but for sons and daughters.。
Let me say that again, this is important.。
Our God is not looking for servants, but for sons and daughters.。
This is what so much of the 21st century church has got wrong.。
If I serve God, I'll deserve His love.。
Wrong.。
Sadly, it is so prevalent in our city, in our society.。
Hong Kong Christians love to try and earn God's love by doing more for Him.。
If I pray more, if I read the Bible more, if I attend more church meetings, if I volunteer,。
if I love more, I will earn brownie points with God.。
This isn't what the father in the prodigal son story had in mind, or our father.。
He's waiting.。
Then he sees the son.。
Now, I don't know if you were the father, what your natural reaction would be.。
Probably this, "I'll wait till he comes home.。
I'll make him grovel."。
"I told you so.。
Let's keep him on tender hooks."。
But no, he runs after his son.。
Hebrew fathers didn't do that.。
He lifts up his robe, undignified.。
They didn't do that either.。
In our Hong Kong parlance, he loses face.。
I ask you, what earthly father would do this?。
Yet, this is what our heavenly father does time and time and time again.。
It gets better.。
Bring out the robe.。
Bring out the sandals, a ring for his finger.。
The robe, ring, and sandals show the father's high level of love, honor, authority for the。
son.。
By giving those gifts, the father distinguished his son from the servants.。
It went further.。
"Let's throw a party.。
Let's kill the fatty calf.。
Let's have filet mignon.。
Your place is in the front room with your feet up and a beer in your hands."。
Sonship is pure grace.。
Let me say that again.。
Sonship is pure grace.。
Nothing to do with what you have done right or wrong for that matter.。
Vine Yuen Long, he's calling out to you.。
In our passage today, Paul has clearly indicated that the Galatian Christians were foolish。
in believing they needed to follow the law of Moses to be right with God.。
I want to challenge you right now.。
Put down your job.。
Put down your achievements.。
Put down your roles and run into the arms of the father.。
Just give a minute for the Holy Spirit to speak to you on that.。
You know what you'll find in the arms of the father?。
The only thing you'll find is grace.。
I want to close with some words from a song, "Run to the Father" by worship leader Cody。
Cairns.。
"I run to the father.。
I fall into grace.。
I'm done with the hiding.。
No reason to wait.。
My heart needs a surgeon.。
My soul needs a friend.。
So I run to the father again and again and again."。
As I ask the worship team to come back, I want you to stand and pray for us.。
I wish I had time this morning to ask you all to run to the front and I'd give you a。
big, big dad's hug.。
I'll give you that in spirit today.。
I ask you just to maybe stretch your hands in front of you.。
And just maybe point your hands downwards as you let go of all those things that the。
world defines you as.。
You're more than your job, your achievements, your role in life.。
Just lay them down.。
I decide today I'm not going to be a slave to those things anymore.。
And just lift your hands upwards to God.。
I run to the father.。
I fall into grace.。
I run to the father again and again and again.。
"Father, put your arms around me.。
Tell me I'm your son.。
I'm your daughter.。
You love me.。
You are proud of me.。
It's not because of what I've done, but Jesus, because of who you are and what you。
did for me on the cross."。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
