would be a significant shifting moment for many of us.。
And we thank you for this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says, amen.。
Amen.。
So early in December, Andrew asked me,。
are you free to preach on the 29th of December?。
And I was like, sure.。
And then he said, and you can preach on whatever you want.。
I was like, yes.。
I can preach about this.。
I can preach about that.。
And then I thought, well, maybe I。
should actually pray and ask God,。
is there anything specific you would。
like me to bring on the last Sunday of 2024?。
And so as I began praying for our time together。
and for what to share, I sensed that God impressed upon me。
three words, three words that I believe。
are important to us as a church and also for us individually.。
So if you're visiting here and you're passing through Hong。
Kong or for whatever reason you find yourself right now。
in the vine at this service or if you're watching online,。
then this message is also for you.。
We don't believe in coincidences.。
And again, as I sensed around how to bring this message,。
I felt that it was important that it was something。
that we leaned into that would encourage us.。
And that words, these three words。
God was asking of all of us.。
So those three words are don't hold back.。
As I was chatting with a friend a while ago,。
they were struggling with something.。
And I asked them, well, have you asked God about this?。
Their response was no, which kind of surprised me.。
But as we were talking more, it was clear。
that there was already an assumption about how。
God would respond.。
So they didn't ask.。
Does anybody relate?。
Recently, I was talking to a colleague,。
and she mentioned casually how sometimes it's actually。
hard to talk to God about areas of your life。
because you're not quite sure what he's going to say.。
And again, I was surprised.。
But then I thought, actually, there's。
probably areas in my life, too, that I may not always。
bring to God and how easy it is to hold back.。
So when these three words came through strongly。
about to share with you today, I felt。
that this was something that God was saying very specifically。
to us today about how we are to enter 2025。
and that we are to enter 2025 without holding back.。
Don't hold back is what God would say to us this morning.。
So we'll be looking at two examples in scriptures。
of not holding back.。
And through incredible acts of courage and conviction,。
we see that God moves in surprising ways that。
dramatically change trajectory of lives。
and serve as important examples to us today.。
And my prayer really is, as we open scripture。
and as we allow the Holy Spirit to speak to us,。
is that we would learn we cannot assume to know。
what God thinks on all things because that often。
causes us to hold back.。
When we choose to hold back, we miss out.。
If we choose not to hold back, we。
will experience a depth in our relationship with God。
as well as freedom.。
And that is what God desires for us as we enter 2025.。
So our first story is found in the Old Testament,。
is in the Book of Numbers.。
It's one of my favorite stories.。
It's the story of five sisters who,。
with great courage and humility, choose not to hold back,。
even when holding back would appear。
to be the right thing to do.。
So we pick up the story from chapter 27.。
And the context is Moses is distributing land。
to the families of the Israelites。
for when they enter the promised land, land which,。
according to the law, would pass from father。
to son for generations to come.。
The daughters of Zelophehad, son of Hepha, the son of Gilead,。
the son of Mecca, the son of Manasseh,。
belong to the clans of Manasseh son of Joseph.。
The names of the daughters were Marla, Noah, Hogla, Milcah,。
and Tirzah.。
They came forward and stood before Moses, Elizar。
the priest, the leaders, and the whole assembly。
at the entrance to the tent of meeting and said,。
our father died in the wilderness.。
He was not among Korah's followers who banded together。
against the Lord, but he died for his own sin。
and left no sons.。
Why should our father's name disappear from his clan?。
Because he had no son.。
Give us property among our father's relatives.。
So Moses brought their case before the Lord.。
The Lord said to him, what Zelophehad's daughters are。
saying is right.。
You must certainly give them property。
as an inheritance among their father's relatives。
and give their father's inheritance to them.。
What's interesting about their story。
is that it holds a prominent place in scripture.。
It's mentioned five times throughout the book of Numbers,。
Joshua, and 1 Chronicles.。
So we have to see this as an important incident。
that the biblical authors want us to take note of.。
See as well, the daughters are all named.。
Again, highly unusual, amplifying this story。
and the women as important and their actions。
not to be ignored.。
The daughters of Zelophehad challenged property laws。
in ancient Israel, which said that only sons could。
inherit land.。
They chose to approach Moses, Eleazar the priest,。
and the leaders of the whole assembly.。
Now that is a lot of people right there,。
and people of power and influence.。
And so no doubt quite intimidating to the sisters.。
But they do so out of a concern for their families。
and for the name of their father.。
Why should our father's name disappear from his clan?。
Because he had no son.。
So they made this request despite the risk.。
Possibly being ostracized from within their own extended。
family.。
Imagine what their uncles would be。
thinking who were due to inherit the land。
and with that a lot of money.。
It would have put the sisters potentially。
a very vulnerable position because they。
would have controlled what to do with the land.。
They could have asked the sisters to work the land。
as slaves.。
They could have asked them to leave the land.。
And possibly within their own broader community,。
they would face ridicule and even rebuke。
from their spiritual leaders.。
Because after all, this was Torah law.。
So why did they take the risk and not hold back?。
I believe the sisters understood something。
about what it means to walk in faith。
with the promises of God, the promises of Yahweh.。
They knew they were entering the promised land,。
and with it the promise of God's provision for their future.。
The law, however, would leave them。
not only in a vulnerable position, but without land.。
Their father's name would be no more.。
Zelophehad and his family would be forgotten。
and would not inherit the promised land,。
not inherit promises of God through no fault of their own.。
And that stirs them to speak out.。
I wonder at their courage.。
But I'm also inspired.。
I'm inspired because of how much they trusted God would act。
justly and ultimately fulfill his promises to provide.。
So let's pause for a moment and ask ourselves, honestly,。
how much do we really trust God?。
Where is our faith in God's promises?。
Or as Andrew reminded us during the Advent season,。
our wholehearted trust?。
Do we trust God enough to speak up。
about the things that unsettle us,。
enough to bring our big questions or our fears,。
our frustrations and disappointments to God?。
Do we trust him enough not to hold back?。
As the sisters go to Moses, we see。
Moses respond in a way that should be a lesson for us all,。
especially for those of us who are in this room now。
watching online where you are holding。
any position of authority or influence。
or have power over another.。
Remember, Moses was a spiritual leader of the people,。
revered and respected.。
And he knew the law.。
He wrote the law inspired by God.。
And yet he chose to go to God first with this request.。
Why?。
He could have just said, "No, it's the law.。
The law is the law."。
I believe this tells us something very special。
about the relationship that Moses had with God.。
He knew God more than anyone else.。
Moses earned the title, "Friend of God."。
Exodus 33 tells us, "The Lord would speak to Moses。
face to face as one speaks to a friend."。
I can therefore imagine there was a deep conviction。
within Moses about the sisters' request。
because he knew God, Yahweh, God of justice,。
always on the side of the poor and the vulnerable.。
And that stirred Moses in his own humility。
to bring their case to God, even though he had the law.。
May we always be willing to go to God first whenever。
we are unsure of something and not just assume。
that we know it all or that we have it right。
or even assume that somebody else does.。
May we not be afraid to question when something feels unjust.。
Remember the gaps Andrew spoke about at the start of Advent,。
the gaps that the Apostle Paul wrote about in his letter。
to the Corinthians, "I know in part."。
Even the learned Apostle Paul, he did not claim。
to know everything, and nor should we.。
I also believe this passage teaches us something。
hugely profound about God and our relationship with him.。
The laws of the Torah were given by God,。
but I don't believe for a moment that God accidentally。
got this law wrong, mistake.。
Oops, didn't think about that.。
No.。
But rather, God knew the laws could not possibly。
cover every situation and every evolving circumstances,。
but he wanted his people to be responsible to seek wisdom。
from the principles within God's law.。
He didn't want them just to follow a law for the sake of it。
without fully understanding God's heart behind the law,。
not to hold back from being willing to approach God。
for guidance and wisdom.。
Now, don't mishear me.。
God is the same yesterday, today, and forever.。
But rather, we understand God's heart and his character。
when we are facing those challenging situations。
that we wrestle with.。
Why do you think Jesus got so angry with the Pharisees?。
Because of the way that they practiced the law。
and missed completely the heart of God.。
Ultimately, in this account, we see the faith and the courage。
of five sisters not to hold back,。
and that brought the fulfillment of God's promises。
and the literal promised land.。
So we cannot assume to know everything God is saying。
or doing with our own limited knowledge.。
Who God is and what he is doing is so much more。
than we can possibly fully comprehend.。
We cannot put God in our neat little boxes that suit us.。
But rather, we work in our relationship。
so that we can work with knowing God more,。
and then we can fully comprehend what。
it means to not hold back because we trust him,。
because we call him friend.。
We are far less likely to make decisions。
based on what we think we know when we are willing to seek God。
in prayer first.。
Our second example of not holding back。
is found in the Gospel of Mark, and is。
a retelling of Jesus encountering。
a woman who's been sick for many years。
whilst on the way to heal a child.。
We pick up the story in Mark.。
"A large crowd followed and pressed around him,。
and a woman was there who'd been subject to bleeding for 12。
years.。
She'd suffered a great deal under the care of many doctors。
and had spent all she had.。
Yet instead of getting better, she grew worse.。
When she heard about Jesus, she came up behind him in the crowd。
and touched his cloak, because she thought,。
if I just touch his clothes, I will be healed.。
Immediately, her bleeding stopped,。
and she felt in her body that she。
was freed from her suffering.。
At once, Jesus realized that power had gone out from him.。
He turned around in the crowd and asked,。
who touched my clothes?。
'You see the people crowding against you?'。
his disciples answered.。
'And yet you can ask who touched me?'。
But Jesus kept looking around to see who had done it.。
Then the woman, knowing what had happened to her,。
came and fell at his feet, and trembling with fear,。
told him the whole truth.。
And he said to her, 'Daughter, your faith has healed you.。
Go in peace.。
Be free from your suffering.'"。
I love that Jesus makes a point of stopping and acknowledging。
this suffering woman after he had healed her,。
and that the writer captures the raw details of her suffering.。
Imagine her life before her encounter with Jesus.。
We don't know a lot about her, but we。
do know she'd suffered physically, economically,。
and socially.。
Mark Haidt likes this when he says,。
"She had suffered a great deal under the care of many doctors。
and had spent all she had, yet instead of getting better,。
she grew worse."。
According to Jewish law, she would。
have been considered ceremoniously unclean,。
which meant for 12 years she would。
have been enforced in social and religious isolation.。
Imagine her life if she hadn't held back and not touched,。
Jesus wrote.。
The ongoing suffering, the ongoing hopelessness.。
Then imagine her life after her encounter with Jesus,。
after she did not hold back.。
Now, you could say, well, she had nothing。
to lose by reaching out to Jesus,。
but actually that's not true.。
She carried a lot of shame in her condition.。
She experienced so far disappointment。
after disappointment after disappointment.。
She would have been setting herself up。
for disappointment again if she was not healed.。
Plus the public humiliation.。
She wasn't even allowed to touch another person,。
otherwise they would be considered ritually unclean.。
So the crowd could have turned against her.。
But she took the risk.。
With faith and courage, she didn't hold back.。
Rather, she literally reached out and touched Jesus。
and was healed.。
And I wonder if maybe there are some of us。
today that hold back, because we too believe。
we have something to lose.。
Maybe you've prayed and prayed and yet to receive an answer。
or to see change, maybe you have experienced rejection,。
humiliation, and you're afraid to talk about it.。
Let alone come to God and ask in prayer.。
The woman teaches us that even in our darkest places of shame,。
fear, disappointment, by taking the courage to reach out,。
she was met with love, compassion, and restoration.。
And we can too.。
Imagine your life if you choose not to hold back.。
So why do we hold back?。
What are some of the obstacles that we face。
that keep us from truly surrendering to God?。
Shame, societal pressure, faulty beliefs about who God is,。
complacency, fear, to name a few.。
And I'm sure that there are many other reasons。
that you would have for holding back.。
I also know that sometimes our prayers are not answered。
in the way we had hoped.。
And for some of us, the very real sense of disappointment。
holds us back from being truly honest with God.。
We might think we're being honest,。
but truly being honest with Him.。
You see, the reality is our world is broken.。
And there is pain and suffering all around us and in our lives.。
But in the midst of this,。
we have to be able to go to God with our pain。
and trust that we can be completely honest with Him.。
Think of Job, the suffering he went through,。
the death of loved ones, financial ruin,。
betrayal, physical sickness.。
And through it all, he did not hold back his feelings。
and his sufferings from God.。
He asked a lot of questions.。
But in the end, whilst in the suffering。
and when there was no change in his circumstances,。
there was a shift in his relationship。
and understanding of God.。
Now, we often look at the story of Job。
and we immediately know how it ends.。
But don't forget that right in the midst of his understanding。
of who God truly is,。
he was in the midst of his suffering.。
And I don't think for a moment it was easy for Job。
to forget all of the suffering,。
to forget the loss of his wife,。
to forget the loss of his children。
and all the pain that he had gone through.。
So in this place, he comes to be able to say,。
"My ears had heard of you, but now my eyes have seen you,"。
as he experienced true realization of who God was.。
When we don't hold back, even in our pain。
and with our unanswered questions,。
even in the midst of our suffering,。
there is a deep sense of peace and comfort in who God is。
that builds our faith, that builds our trust。
and brings us peace.。
And as we remain in this place of being in the now,。
but not yet, as we are in the present,。
as we are waiting in the hope we have。
of the life we will have when Jesus returns,。
in that place, we don't want to hold back.。
So as I was praying about, "Well, how do we respond to that?。
How does a room full of people, those watching online,。
how do you respond to a message?。
You know, what do you do with that?。
And God, what are you saying to us?"。
And God gave me a picture.。
And God sometimes speaks to me in pictures.。
He speaks in many different ways, through Scripture。
and through various different ways.。
And one of them for me is through pictures.。
So he gave me a picture that I would like to share with you.。
And of course, we always test, you know, what is being said。
and, you know, how this resonates with you.。
I leave with the Holy Spirit.。
And so the picture that I got was that this whole auditorium,。
as we are full now, everybody here,。
there were barriers in front of you.。
Do you remember during COVID, you would go into the restaurant。
and there were the plastic barriers?。
You know, you would sit and, you know,。
the person in front of you that you were having lunch。
or dinner or breakfast with, there's a barrier。
and then there's you. It's transparent,。
but there was still something between you.。
Do we remember that?。
Or have we chosen to put that away。
and never think about it again?。
Well, the picture I had was that this room was full。
of people with barriers, these transparent barriers.。
And these transparent barriers were between them and God.。
Now they thought they knew God.。
They thought that they had a relationship and they do,。
but there is a barrier.。
And what God was saying, to remove the barrier。
so that you do not hold back.。
There is nothing between you and God.。
Some of us feel that there are things。
that we cannot talk about or say to God.。
That's not true.。
And I felt that God really wanted to impress upon us。
as we enter into a new year in 2025.。
And if you're part of the Vine,。
as we enter into this new season of,。
what does it mean to go and take action for God?。
We have to have the relationship with God。
where there are no barriers and that we can go to Him。
with everything that we have.。
And so as I thought about some different areas。
that I believe in this room, those watching,。
are struggling with that are real barriers for you.。
And so I wanna mention a few of them。
and maybe that's something that resonates with you.。
But I would say, as I was praying earlier,。
thinking about how do I lead this response?。
What does it look like?。
I haven't scripted this.。
So how do I lead this?。
I felt that God was saying, do you know what?。
Don't hold back as a message。
for every single one of you in this room.。
Every single one of you.。
And so we all can respond.。
But I also felt that God wanted to share。
a couple of specific things.。
And the reason why He wants to do that。
is to show you specifically, individually,。
how real God is and how much He knows your situation.。
Because it's pretty general, right?。
Don't hold back.。
So as I share these different specific areas,。
then if that relates to you,。
then we're gonna be praying for you.。
We'd love to pray for you.。
And again, I believe that the Holy Spirit。
in the picture that I saw,。
He was actually just removing all the barriers.。
It wasn't difficult to remove those barriers.。
You know, you just unplugged it。
and it was out the restaurant.。
You know, for God, this is not,。
He removes barriers by the power of His Holy Spirit.。
And that is what He wants to do.。
So we enter 2025 with nothing in the way。
of our relationship with God.。
So a couple of things I just wanna call out.。
(pages rustling)。
So in the room, there are those that are struggling。
in a specific relationship.。
You're in a relationship and you have not talked。
to God about it at all.。
Because you're afraid of what God will say.。
It's almost like you have this assumption。
that He's not gonna be happy about it.。
And so therefore, you're not talking to Him about it,。
where actually, more than anything,。
He wants to talk to you about it.。
He wants you to know what it is。
to be in relationship with Him.。
And to do that, not to be afraid,。
not to hold the guilt by withholding this.。
So I encourage you, don't hold back, talk to God.。
In this room as well,。
(pages rustling)。
there is a struggle with identity.。
You don't wanna talk to God about who you are,。
an identity that you're holding onto,。
because you're so afraid of the judgment.。
You're so afraid of it.。
I can feel that judgment sitting on you.。
You feel you can't talk about this。
because it's something that you've hidden for so long.。
And yet God would say to you, "I see you.。
"Talk to me, don't hold back."。
Often our identities are wrapped in what other people think.。
But actually, God is saying,。
"The number one person that you should think about。
"how they think about you is God," person and divine.。
Divine.。
So don't hold back.。
I sensed also that in the room,。
there was pressure from lots of different,。
probably family, I would say, but also maybe friends.。
Pressure that is building up pressure within you,。
and you're feeling also pressure about being a Christian.。
You're feeling the pressure of how you need to perform。
for your family, for other people, and for God.。
And God would say to you,。
"I do not expect you to perform in any way.。
"I just want you to have the relationship with me.。
"Come to me, don't hold back."。
You're so afraid that you're not doing the right things。
of what it means to follow God.。
You're actually not even talking to God about those things.。
And he would say, "Talk to me."。
I think that's the strongest thing that I'm getting。
as I'm standing here.。
It's like, God is desperate for you to talk to him。
because we don't.。
We are afraid, we're so afraid.。
We have these assumptions and these judgments。
that we've already made or other people have made.。
There's enough in the world,。
there's enough societal pressure.。
We don't need God to put that on us as well.。
And he's saying to us, "Do not be my people。
"who feels that they cannot talk to me about things."。
Because when you don't do that, you're building up walls。
and there's barriers.。
And God wants to remove the barriers so that you're free.。
When you know that you can go to God with anything,。
in the emotions that you're holding, in your anger,。
in the questions that you still don't know,。
have not had answered.。
If you know you can still go to God。
because he's there for you 24/7,。
your life will look a lot different.。
Imagine if you didn't hold back in that way.。
And so I'd like us to take a step of courage,。
a step of faith.。
The sisters spoke out, the woman reached out.。
I'm asking you that as you enter 2025,。
that if you want to enter where you choose。
not to hold back from God,。
I would ask you to stand right now.。
And maybe something that I spoke specifically。
has stirred in your heart.。
But I felt strongly for us as a church。
and for those that maybe you're leaving Hong Kong。
and you're going somewhere else,。
there's a reason why you're in the service right now。
to hear a word from God that tells you directly,。
do not hold back.。
God is all powerful.。
And so I'm gonna pray for us.。
And the picture that I got, I believe is prophetic.。
I believe in the power of the Holy Spirit。
that is moving amongst us.。
I believe the questions we can hold are fine.。
There is nothing that we've done, that we've said,。
or that we think that will separate us from who God is。
and the love he has for us.。
We sang about it earlier.。
There was a strong sense that God bringing love。
to this place as Andrew spoke to us.。
And I believe in this picture is prophetic。
because those barriers, they absolutely were removed。
and they were gone, gone completely.。
And that is what we will pray now.。
You know yourself individually。
what those obstacles are in your life。
that hold you back from being completely open with God.。
You know what they are.。
You can talk to God about what that is.。
And whenever you feel like,。
ah, I feel like there's barrier again,。
then remember these words, don't hold back。
because that's not me speaking.。
That's God encouraging us to be a people。
who doesn't hold back.。
So Father, I wanna pray and ask for your Holy Spirit。
to move in this place right now.。
Everybody that has stood,。
for whatever reason they have stood,。
they are asking that you would empower them。
to step into 2025 and that they would not hold back.。
Father, we're praying that you would remove all barriers。
that stop them having that open conversation,。
that open relationship.。
Remove them God, remove them in the name of Jesus.。
Where there has been those words,。
those words that Andrew spoke,。
that's coming through so strong,。
words that have been spoken over you.。
They have hurt you so deeply。
that actually the barrier that you've put up。
is because you feel that God has let you down.。
It's not fair is what you would say.。
And so God, I pray that barrier be gone。
in the name of Jesus.。
Where there is fear and guilt。
and where there is this sense of judgment,。
be gone in the name of Jesus.。
And whatever else we carry in the obstacles。
by the power of the Holy Spirit,。
they are gone in the name of Jesus.。
And we enter into the new year。
with nothing separating us.。
We enter into the new year knowing that we have faith,。
we wholeheartedly trust.。
And in the moments that we don't,。
we ask and say, God help us to have more faith.。
And Father, we pray for the hope。
that we live in knowing that our future。
is in the now and not yet,。
in the coming of Jesus.。
And the love that absolutely drives。
who you are and everything about our relationship with you.。
We choose God not to hold back.。
And we thank you for the work of the Holy Spirit。
in this place right now.。
And so we're going to respond in worship.。
This also might be a time where God wants to speak。
to you specifically about those obstacles.。
And it's simply a saying,。
God, I don't wanna hold back.。
That's it.。
That's all you have to do.。
The Holy Spirit does the rest.。
God does the rest.。
You don't have to worry about,。
well, what does this look like tomorrow?。
This is now.。
The Holy Spirit is here working。
and releasing us to go out into 2025,。
where we do not hold back.。
(indistinct)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
♪ You say you're... ♪。
