Thank you, Pastor Chapman. And good morning, everybody. It is such an honor and I'm so。
blessed to be able to preach today, this morning. And first of all, I want to ask you a question.。
I don't know how many of you can understand about buying fresh fruit. All these housewife。
mothers, do you know? Yes? Wow, wonderful. I have to learn from you. I'm a person who。
doesn't really understand very well. And many times when I buy fruit, I just look at the。
outside appearance, if it is smooth or is shiny. And then especially when I buy avocados,。
because I like to eat that very much. And unfortunately, after I bring them home, and。
most of the time, the inside of the avocado is black and rotten. One of the common mistakes。
when choosing fruit is to pick the outside, the appearance alone. Many people judge by。
a fruit quality, mainly in its color, size, and the outward appearance. However, the good。
looking fruit is not always the best. And being able to properly to select a high quality。
fruit require a certain level of knowledge and skill, like this lady. I've learned from。
you. And otherwise, it will lead us to poor selection. In the last two months, we have。
been looking at the book of Galatians. In this sermon series, we look at Paul's letter。
as he is astonished that Galatian believers are turning away from the truth of the gospel.。
They actually cannot discern the good and the bad. They are being deceived and tricked。
by a counterfeit gospel. So Paul defends and unpacks the true gospel to the churches so。
that God's visions can be lived out by these new Christians.。
Today we come to the final section of the Galatian letter, chapter 6, verses 12 to 17.。
In this last section, towards the end of Paul's letter, he's given a final warning and benediction.。
Now let's look at what he tried to deliver in verses 12. "Those who want to impress people。
by means of the flesh are trying to compel you to be circumcised. The only reason they。
do this is to avoid being persecuted for the cross of Christ." Verses 13. "Not even those。
who are circumcised keep the law, yet they want you to be circumcised that they may boast。
about your circumcision in the flesh." In verse 12, there are some people who are claiming。
to be following Jesus, and they're trying to convince the Gentile Christians to have。
a cut in their flesh, that is circumcision. And they also, this false teacher, want these。
Gentiles to follow the law of Moses. And the reason behind that is that they do not want。
a life to be difficult, and they want to avoid being persecuted.。
You see, these false teachers, they were looking at these uncircumcised Gentiles as deficient。
and unworthy, unless they circumcised. They definitely have brought a division to the。
church instead of unity. And of course, discipleship of these false teachers is just a show, is。
a hypocritical faith. I don't know if sometimes we may do that too in the church. We may see。
other believers who look or act differently than us. We have a tendency to judge, to judge。
them based on the external factors, when in reality, Jesus is enough, and there's no favoritism。
with God. You see, this new movement of Christians,。
claiming that Jesus is the long-awaited Christ, the Messiah, is troubling these Jewish leaders.。
And now the movement is spreading to the Gentiles. Non-Christian Jews want to stop it, to snuff。
it out. They begin persecuting Christians, and in order to avoid this persecution, these。
prideful false teachers, they are putting a show to appease non-Christian Jews by boasting。
to them that, "Hey, look, these Gentile converts to Christ, they are coming under the Jewish。
law." And the motive is winning more converts to their cause to make themselves look good,。
feel important, and look righteousness. And unfortunately, they themselves cannot keep。
the law of Moses, which consists of a lot of rituals, restrictions, and prohibitions.。
And just kind of like the Pharisees, Jesus said, "They preach, but they do not practice."。
But also, these false teachers, they cannot keep the law of Christ, which is full of grace。
and the love of God. Paul here is trying to say, "Let's no boast in the flesh or in the。
outward appearance." When we stand before God, nothing apart from Jesus matters. Jesus。
is the one who turns our boasting upside down. Our rank, our status, our money, our achievements。
don't do anything for us. So Paul does boast, and he boasts in the cross. In verses 14,。
he said, "May I never boast except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, through which。
the world has been crucified to me, and not I to the world." Paul has repeatedly emphasized。
the work of Christ upon the cross, and the grace of God is sufficient. Circumstances,。
crucial diets, feasts, rituals, et cetera, et cetera, they don't have the power to transform。
lives. And the ground of acceptance is Jesus, and depend on anything else is deadly. Honestly,。
the cross is a real challenge for those who want to maintain their pride. It's a problem。
for those who have a desire for others to praise them and to see them successful. I。
know in that in some churches, many believers often know the amount of time and offerings。
of other believers, and the donation information will always be printed out weekly to show。
everybody. And as a result, some believers may show extra respect and care for those。
who donate more, and while others who donate less are often neglected. A pastor friend。
told me before in his church, he must reach a certain number of people in his group in。
order to receive a year-end bonus, and depending on how well he reaches the target, the bonus。
he received very likely is higher than his monthly pay. I can go on and on and tell you。
all kinds of stories, but there's no great mystery about the motives behind all this。
is to look good and show off. They actually do not understand the meaning of the true。
gospel. Actually, the cross is pretty embarrassing. It wasn't the religious symbol as it is today.。
Remember, the cross was the method of execution for serious crimes committed and for those。
against the Roman Empire. But how is Paul boasting in something so shameful like the。
cross of Jesus? As for Paul, and for all of us, the cross is not something to be ashamed。
of, for as he wrote to the church at Rome, it is the power of God for salvation. Our。
boasting, our identity, our trust should ultimately come from one place and one place only, and。
that is the cross of our Jesus. Here Paul says that the world is dead to him, and that。
he is dead to the world. What does it mean for the world to be crucified to him? If the。
world is dead to you, then it does not have the power over you. The world is care, desires,。
and values have no sway in your life. The world is dead to you. The world does not influence。
you. It does not move you. And Paul is saying that all those things are dead to him, and。
the world is crucified to him, and that this is what he's proud of. You see, the cross。
is the very heart of our faith. For our endless sinful rebellion in our flesh, we are the。
ones who deserve to spill our own blood. But God loves us so much, took on the human flesh。
and blood to die for us. God's will is that the cross be always be magnified, and that。
Jesus Christ, his crucifixion, is always be our praise and our boast. And Jesus get the。
glory and the honor for every good thing in our lives, and every bad thing that God causes。
to turn for good. Amen. So now if Gentiles don't need to put an effort to do the circumcision,。
wow, they should be able to win God's favor, right? No. Let's read verses 15. "Neither。
circumcision nor uncircumcision means anything. What counts is the new creation." Now that's。
the contrast between circumcision and new creation. It doesn't matter if they're circumcised。
or not. And it doesn't matter if take that step or not. For they cannot win God's love。
and acceptance. So church, what counts? What is the most important then? What matters is。
that as Christians, we have been transformed on the inside and the circumcision of the。
heart. And that is by God's divine power that launches us to be a new creation. Just as。
Christ was crucified and raised. So Paul's old self, your old self, and my old self was。
crucified with Christ by faith. And we too have been raised to a new life. We now live。
a new heart. We are new creatures indwelled by the Holy Spirit. And even as we continue。
to battle and make headway against our remaining sin, the cross is the source of transformation。
that Paul calls a new creation. But what is a new creation anyway? As Christians, we are。
born again. The world is no longer our treasure or source of satisfaction. This new birth。
is not physical, but spiritual. Being born again to Jesus, the power of the world has。
been broken over us. We have been translated from darkness into the light. Jesus becomes。
our Lord. His grace is the undeserved favor of God that gives us the new life. And it。
also provides us a new desire and power to live in a way that we can please God. Our。
Lord, he concerns with our motives, our attitudes, our desires, behind our actions, not just。
our outward behavior. This new, lifelong, ongoing spiritual transformation journey。
requires cooperation on our part with what the Holy Spirit means to do in us. It shifts。
us from gratifying desires of the flesh to being led by the Spirit and bearing the fruit。
of the Spirit. And this is our calling, church. This is our purpose, to live a genuine, Spirit-empowered,。
obedience life in Jesus. We represent him everywhere and every time. And that we need。
to show gentleness, grace, mercy, and love to others. And in this journey, it is not。
a one-time experience. This is a lifelong journey, leads to a greater intimacy with。
God and Christ-likeness. And there's a blessing of peace and mercy, as Galatians 6, 16 said,。
all who follow this rule. What rule? This rule of being justified by faith in Christ。
and not works of law. And all who own God's work and power in making them new creatures.。
We are God's true people. And Paul calls them the Israel of God. And this is the church,。
the true Israel. And the reality of being new creation in Jesus is personal and individual,。
as well as corporate. Not only did Jesus very personally love you and die for you and give。
himself for you and at the cross, but he love us. He love you and he love me. And this is。
his church. And he make us a people together as family in him. And the new creation is。
a wondrous thing, formed in the mind of God and created in his power and for his glory.。
This is in line of our church, divine's vision for growing big people. Growing big people。
means to become more like Jesus. Growing big people is not something just for only the。
high status or mature Christians. It's God's heart for every single us. Every single us.。
No matter you are mature or you're new to the Christ. This is for all of us. And this。
is what we discover and see in the letter of Galatians. That is God's heart to mature。
us and be a blessings to many others and to build them up and to speak life to them.。
And finally, we come to the end of Galatians. And one of the last things Paul writes to。
is in his own hand, he said, "I bear on my body the marks of Jesus." In verses 17. These。
marks in Greek means stigmata. It means the signs of ownership, especially were branded。
on slaves and cattle. Paul referred to the scars on his body, which were caused by the。
persecution for Jesus. And because they demonstrate that he was a slave of Jesus and not people。
pleaser. Like Jesus, Paul also had the scars. The scars which point not to his own work,。
but to Jesus' work. The marks of Jesus that he carries in his own body. As in 2 Corinthians。
chapter 11, verses 23 to 27, Paul has mentioned some of what he suffered for the sake of Christ。
in prison, in shipwreck, in danger of many, many situations and kindness, near death beatings。
and also being stoned by many others. He put a final period in place with his own life,。
with what he has been willing to suffer in order to live for Jesus and preach the gospel.。
And amazingly, he lived what he preached at a great cost. I personally have a story to。
tell you about the cost. About 23 years ago, I was called by God and came back to Hong。
Kong from America as missionary. That was 2001. Our family of four, my husband and I。
and my two children at that time is six and two years old. We respond to God's call. We。
sold everything. The only thing we have is four suitcases and flew back to Hong Kong。
to commit ourselves to serve the law. As the funds we brought back to Hong Kong were reducing,。
my husband gave up the ministry and found a job teaching at a kindergarten. I continue。
to take care of the family and volunteer regularly at the local Christian drug rehab center and。
also minister in different house churches in the mainland China.。
Unfortunately, in 2003, my husband was dissatisfied with the life in Hong Kong and have an affair。
with a lady. He refused to turn around. He took advantage when I spent two nights at。
the Macau Women's Drug Rehab Center and without saying a word, he stole everything from me.。
My passport, my credit cards and all my money. And he took our two children who were only。
eight and four years old at that time. He left, they left Hong Kong and flew back to。
the United States. When I returned home from Macau, I saw the empty house and I was devastated.。
My whole world was collapsed and I shattered into pieces.。
Feeling extremely sad, lost and confused, I continue to sought the law with fasting。
and prayers. And finally, I decide to stay in Hong Kong to continue fulfilling the calling。
of God. With much God's grace and strength, he sustains me. Though my ex-husband lied。
and twist the fact when he returned to America, I agreed to his request for a divorce and。
gave up the custody of our children. God spoke and gave me the promise that my two children。
would return to Hong Kong in the future. And he asked me to stick to his call without fear。
or doubt. And afterwards, I enrolled and studied in a theological seminary. And I also。
continued the ministry in China and opened my residence to help people in need.。
Yes, God has promised. But when? I'm sure many of you will have the same experience。
that waiting for God is not an easy task. I missed my children so much I cried every。
day until all tears dried. God has promised, but it didn't mean it would happen right。
away. Then suddenly, one day, God's promise and mercy came true in the summer of 2006.。
My ex-husband gave up the children. And at that time, the children aged seven and eleven,。
who had been separated from their mother for three years, returned to my arms. It felt。
like I had been waiting for a lifetime. And now they are grown-up adults staying in Australia.。
Church, yes, there's a price to pay when you follow Jesus. The cross and the cost.。
In these 23 years of ministry, I can tell you, battles are never-ending. However, the。
Christ in me always helped me to embrace the process and overcome. I have fought the good。
fight, yet the race is not finished. And there's always glory in suffering. We will find spiritual。
growth, hope, and deeper experience of God's presence, even in the midst of difficulties。
and pains in our life. These false teachers, under pressure, they make marks on other people's。
flesh and boast in a headcount of circumcision. Marks have been made in Paul's flesh as he。
has defended the truth of the gospel. Embraced by faith alone, we are a new creation, and。
it is enough to keep us right with God. Our precious brothers and sisters, what really。
counts in your life? We're going to have personal prayer at your。
seats. I invite you to pray and talk to Jesus, and he is here to listen. What are you looking。
for in this world? The temporary happiness that quickly vanishes as soon as it is experienced,。
leaving us empty and looking for more to keep us alive. What is the world given to you?。
Is it the confusion, the anxiety, the suffering, grief, or even hatred that keep us hooked?。
It is the cross that free us from all the worries of this world, and it is supposed。
to be a new life where this world no longer has its hooks in us.。
Church, does your life look like Jesus? Are you willing to live a life which is guided。
and obeyed the Holy Spirit to bear fruit? God is here to transform you and help you。
through the process. He sustains your life, and you can trust him. He is the one true。
God. This is a very precious moment you have for。
Jesus, and he is waiting here to listen to you and talk to you. And when you finish your。
prayer, and when you are ready, please come to the front and receive your bread and cup。
and to have communion with our precious God Almighty.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
