Good afternoon, yeah, it's afternoon. Good afternoon, everyone.。
This is Jennifer. In case you don't know me, I come here every once in a while only,。
but it's so lovely to be here.。
But I am the CG pastor, community groups pastor at Wan Chai.。
So basically my work is to build community.。
So when I hear from Tim that I'm gonna be preaching on this topic,。
"Just Community," I'm like, "Oh, this is so interesting."。
But Tim insisted that this is just a coincidence. He didn't plan for this.。
But no matter whether it is planned or not,。
it's so lovely just for me to be here to share what I am really passionate in.。
So I really look forward to unpack the passage with you.。
So let me pick up a little bit from what we did last week.。
So last week we saw that in Acts chapter 2,。
the apostles went out to evangelize,。
share the gospel, and then God gave 3,000 people。
to come to faith, to get baptized.。
And this is amazing as well.。
That's the result of, like, Christians following the Holy Spirit and do his work.。
So, but let's imagine this together.。
Let's say we go outside today, we evangelize,。
and God gives us 3,000 people.。
What would come to your mind?。
First of all, we praise the Lord for all these salvations happening.。
But immediately we would start thinking about,。
"How do we fit 3,000 people in this room?。
How many services do we need?。
How do we get to know all the people that have joined our community?"。
I think immediately a lot of questions, a lot of planning。
will come to our mind as well, right?。
So, because we don't know what to do,。
we've never had that many people in our church community.。
Then we were like, "What do we do now?"。
So this is the same to the apostles as well.。
Like, this is something new for them.。
They've not been there before.。
They've never had 3,000 people in the church.。
So it was the uncharted season for the apostles as well.。
They were just responding to the Holy Spirit,。
and God adds 3,000 people to them.。
This was not planned.。
They did not go out with a strategy or marketing plan,。
aimed to have 3,000 people in the church.。
But this is what happened.。
This is the result.。
So now they have to learn how to do life together with these people.。
So this is our focus today.。
What does it look like to be a community who follow Jesus together?。
Throughout my years working with community groups,。
I've heard one question a lot.。
"Can I just follow Jesus and mind my own business,。
but not in a community?"。
I think this is like the most heard questions ever.。
So I know that it might not be super comfortable。
for us to really be super close to other Christians,。
but there's nothing wrong with that fear or whatever behind the question.。
But today we want to look into the Bible together,。
what it really means to be a group of people that follow Christ together.。
We will continue to read on Acts 2, verse 42-47.。
But before we read that, let's approach the scripture this way.。
This is not a model for us to follow that we do A, B, C, and D,。
then we are a perfect church.。
This is something the early church was learning as well.。
They were in the process of learning.。
So hopefully as we open the passage together,。
this will give you inspiration that will allow you to reflect on。
what it means to be in a community together.。
So let's read the scripture together.。
"They devoted themselves to the apostles' teachings and to fellowship,。
to the breaking of bread and to prayer.。
Everyone was filled with awe at many wonders and signs。
performed by the apostles.。
All the believers were together and had everything in common.。
They sold property and possessions to give to anyone who had need.。
Every day they continued to meet together in the temple courts.。
They broke bread in their homes and ate together with glad and sincere hearts,。
praising God and enjoying the favor of all the people.。
And the Lord added to their number daily those who were being saved."。
So there is a lot being said in this passage.。
So first of all, I want to highlight one word to you, which is "devoted."。
This word always stands out to me when I read this passage.。
And what does it mean to be devoted?。
In Greek, the word has the meanings of being persistent,。
obstinately in, being faithful to, and remaining in something.。
I don't know how this speaks to you, but if we think about it,。
being persistent can actually be a very countercultural thing to do.。
Today, people might not be super valuing being persistent.。
It's something, like imagine this, it's something that's not work in our workplace.。
What will come to our mind?。
We will think about, "Should I change my job?。
Should I start over in another company?"。
And if we have conflicts with our friends, perhaps it's easier for us to withdraw。
and to just make some new friends and move forward.。
Same to church community.。
Today, if I don't like this church,。
maybe I can just easily find another church down the road.。
I'm not saying everyone is like this today.。
I'm still seeing a lot of faithful people around us.。
But sometimes it seems that it's just easier to give up。
in terms of relationships, in terms of being persistent, right?。
This is the honest truth, that it is very convenient and tempting。
if something does not work,。
we can just start it over by changing the environment.。
And me, personally, had experience in that before.。
So I remember when I first came to faith, I was a teenager,。
and I joined a community of my age.。
So, but one year in, I felt like I'm an outsider,。
because most of the people grew up in that church.。
They knew each other since they were a kid.。
And as a new believer, as a new person in this church,。
I felt very hard to blend in.。
So at some point, I just want to leave the church.。
But I respect my pastor, so I talked to him.。
I said, I told my youth pastor that I really want to leave this church。
and go to somewhere else.。
So when he heard that, the first thing he said was,。
"All relationships take time, and it takes effort."。
And he knows my personality.。
I'm a person who likes challenges.。
I'm a person who will keep my promise.。
So he challenged me to commit for three years.。
It's not just showing up when I feel like it,。
but really commit to engage in the community,。
to make it my priority, to try to as involve as possible.。
If three years, I still feel like I want to leave,。
then I can make a decision on that.。
I was like, "What are you talking about?。
I want to leave already. You asked me for three more years?。
Are you serious?"。
But, yeah, because of the trust I have for that pastor,。
I think I would just give it a try.。
So that three years, after that day,。
that three years, I've been as engaged as possible.。
Even I don't feel like it, I still show up.。
I participate.。
I get to know my brothers and sisters.。
And later, I try to serve as well,。
start serving and contributing to the community as much as I can.。
And guess what?。
Three years later, I didn't only find myself already blended in already,。
but also I became a very core member of that church。
and my community as well.。
And of course, there were bad days that we had a lot of conflicts,。
teenagers or young adults, we just conflict every other week.。
But because of the promise that I had for my pastor。
and also to Jesus already,。
that I chose to be persistent.。
I chose to continue.。
And now, looking back, I'm really grateful for that pastor。
to really challenge me to commit for a long time.。
Because if I just gave up, I would never learn the lesson.。
What a valuable lesson for me to learn to be devoted,。
to be committed to my brothers and sisters.。
So I'm not sure whether you struggle with that as well.。
If you're me, you might be struggling in persisting in your community。
or in your relationship as well.。
And if you are struggling with your community,。
if you want to give up, my encouragement for you today。
is that it really takes time to build relationship,。
to overcome the differences that we have.。
Because after all, we are different people.。
We are all unique.。
And even during the bad days,。
I pray that God will show you how to grow in that,。
how to really persist and be committed to God,。
and he will give you the grace to overcome.。
And then we will look into what the early Christians have devoted.。
It is also very important to be intentional。
to what we are committing in our community.。
Church is not just a group of Christians gathering together,。
and then automatically, boom, we are growing。
and we are participating in God's work.。
We need to be mindful, be intentional about what we are devoting to.。
So I know we've been there as well.。
Even a group of Christians gathering together,。
we can always just talk about where did we travel,。
our last week in Japan, and things like that.。
So being intentional is really important.。
So let's continue to look into the scripture.。
So I will highlight the first 42 for us.。
It says they are devoted to four things.。
The first one is the apostles' teachings.。
The second one is fellowship.。
The third one is the breaking of bread.。
And finally, the prayer.。
So let me recap the context a little bit.。
So these are the people who heard about the gospel,。
they decided to follow Jesus, they got baptized,。
and now they are new to this identity as Christians.。
And together, they are also figuring out。
how to live the life together as Christians.。
So those four things in first 42 are essential。
to shape their identity as the followers of Christ.。
This is how they learned to be Christians。
after they got baptized.。
They are all important elements of Christians' lives,。
and I'm going to break them down one by one.。
So the first one is the apostles' teaching.。
Those apostles are the ones who witnessed Jesus in person,。
and commissioned by Jesus to teach everyone。
to obey everything Jesus has commanded in Matthew 28.。
So to the early Christians, it is not only about showing up。
when the apostles are preaching,。
but it is also about obeying Jesus,。
and also to put those things into practice.。
Of course, today, all the apostles are with Jesus now,。
but we got the Bible,。
which has written what Jesus did and taught.。
So how are we doing that in following apostles' teaching?。
Are we devoted to read the Bible,。
and also to submit to what the Bible says?。
Are we allowing the Bible shape our lives,。
our character, and our action?。
And the second element is fellowship.。
It might be a very Christianese word, if you will.。
So this works in Greek in the original language.。
It can be translated into a simple word,。
into English, it's close relationship.。
So not sure how this word speaks to you as well.。
Again, to me, it is a very counter-cultural thing。
to do as well, especially in Hong Kong.。
This city, the people are very individualistic.。
We are busy, we mind our own business.。
Most people would not spend time talking to our neighbors。
outside of our friends and family circles.。
And sometimes we see this in church as well.。
Rushing off to our next appointment。
after going to church service.。
We might not have much time to talk to one another in church.。
But as brothers and sisters,。
we are not supposed to be just sitting to each other。
in the service, and that's it.。
Jesus commands us to love one another.。
In our community, our brothers and sisters。
is the place that we can put his command into practice.。
So if you are one of those who don't have a community yet,。
I'm not sure what's the reason behind。
what makes you hesitating a little bit.。
It could be negative experience in the past,。
but that makes sense.。
And perhaps you are still new。
and observing the church itself.。
But in this season of Uncharted,。
let me challenge you to maybe think about。
taking one step forward.。
To really invest in a close relationship。
to the people around you.。
To take one step forward,。
and I pray that God will lead you。
to experience a closer relationship。
with your brothers and sisters like never before.。
And let's continue to look at the third thing,。
which is the breaking of bread.。
Here it could mean communion,。
which we just did just now.。
It's amazing that we could take communion。
like that together.。
But it can also mean sharing a meal together.。
So through committing to take communion,。
we are committed to remember what Jesus has done for us.。
And with sharing the meals together,。
if we look at 1st 46,。
they broke the bread and ate together in their homes,。
which is not only about eating together,。
but also like hospitality as well.。
In gospel, we see a lot of stories。
that Jesus go to different houses。
and share a meal with those who are marginalized。
in their society to show acceptance to these people.。
And this is for us as well.。
I'm a huge advocate for the communities to eat together。
to really show that I am interested in your life.。
We, like actually we engage people differently。
when we eat together.。
We know the allergies,。
we know what they like, what they don't like.。
We accommodate each other's needs。
and to show it is okay。
that you don't like eating vegetables.。
I still love you.。
I still accept you.。
It's funny, right?。
I think you have a monthly bring your own lunch thing, right?。
No, not anymore.。
But anyway, let me encourage you to really find a time。
to sit together, to eat together,。
to get take away and just use the space。
to share a meal together.。
It's just really a precious experience for us as Christians.。
And the final one is prayer.。
It is quite straightforward to us.。
I think like through our devotion in prayer,。
we seek God and we live up one another in our community.。
And again, I know that we all pray individually,。
but not sure whether you are committed。
to corporate prayer as well.。
As we just announced, here we have a monthly prayer evening。
that if you have never joined that before,。
I will encourage you to do so。
because there's power when Christians gather together。
and pray corporately and seek God together.。
So I'm not sure like in this room,。
how long you've been a Christian.。
It might sound a little bit basic。
if you have been a Christian for a long time,。
or if you are new to faith,。
you might be a little bit overwhelmed,。
like, "Oh, there's so many things I need to do."。
But we don't need to work on all things at the same time.。
No matter in what season you are in,。
there's always some things Jesus want to cause you to learn.。
Perhaps today we can pray together。
and see which elements of the Christian's life。
stands out to you in this season.。
And we can work on that in the coming season.。
So I also want to share that as a pastor,。
there is something I need to work on as well.。
And sometimes I need to learn in a hard way.。
So there are things I still are growing。
and learning as well.。
And let me share another story with you.。
So as a Hong Kong kid growing up,。
I am raised to be independent,。
and I am more a private person.。
I think Chapman can verify that I do not use social media.。
So I am quite private in some sense.。
And I'm not someone that I have a lot to share。
about myself all the time,。
except like here is a challenge for me as well,。
that I have to share a lot about myself,。
and how Jesus spoke to me through scripture,。
through the different things that he has me to experience.。
So my personality or how I am raised by my parents。
might not be super helpful for me。
to grow up in a Christian community.。
So one time, I think Emma from One Child Worship pastor,。
she's also my friend.。
So one time we were just casually talking about something.。
She asked me something about me.。
And I told her, "It's my privacy.。
I'm not telling you."。
And she was not offended,。
but she suddenly become very serious and say this to me,。
"Jennifer, why are you refusing others to love you?"。
At the moment, it spoke to me somehow,。
but I just try to get away from that.。
I talk about something else and I got away from that.。
And then months later,。
I think we were having a pastoral retreat.。
We went outside and then I suddenly felt very sick.。
I don't know why.。
I felt very dizzy the whole day。
and I couldn't even stand or sit for a long time.。
I have to lie down to make myself not feeling dizzy.。
It was terrible.。
I've never been there before.。
And of course, all my colleagues were very nervous.。
Like, "What happened, Jennifer?。
What happened?。
Do we need to call the ambulance?。
Do we need to send you to the hospital?"。
And I'm like, "Of course I would decline."。
I'm like, "Ah, I'm okay.。
Just let me rest and then I will taxi home later."。
And then, so Emma showed up again.。
Of course, she will be there.。
And then she came to me and she had me to promise her,。
"No matter I feel better the next day or not,。
I need to promise her that I will go see a doctor。
and I will let her know how it goes."。
And then I'm like, "It's not a big deal."。
And my medical situation is my personal data。
and things like that.。
I've seen ridiculous things to her.。
But she insists, so I promised her,。
like, "Okay, I will let you know tomorrow.。
I will go see a doctor and I will let you know."。
And then, so I taxi home and then I took a,。
I slept very early on that day.。
Hopefully that I will feel better the next day.。
So I think I slept at 8 p.m. or something like that.。
And then in the midnight, I woke up.。
And for no reason, I was tearing in the middle of night.。
And immediately I had a sense。
that God has something to say to me.。
So I prayed, "Lord, are you telling me something?。
Tell me, I'm listening."。
And then, so that question Emma asked me。
a few months ago showed up again.。
"Why do you refuse others to love you?"。
So God was saying to me that,。
"It doesn't matter how I grew up.。
It doesn't matter how I experience love in my family.。
What I can do right now is to choose。
to allow the people around me to love me。
and to allow them to participate in my life.。
And it's okay to allow people。
to meet my physical needs as well."。
So I was really, I'm like, "Oh, sorry God, I messed up."。
And I didn't know that it was that serious.。
So I cried, I prayed, I asked God to forgive me。
for doing that.。
And the next week that I confessed to Emma as well,。
that I've done that to you.。
And it was the lesson for me that God wanted me。
to learn to have a close relationship with my friends,。
to let them come closer beyond my comfort level.。
And it's been a few years that that incident has happened.。
And I'm really thankful that God really showed me it's okay.。
And I felt like even it was uncomfortable,。
but I grew a lot.。
And I experienced a close relationship like never before.。
So I'm not sure what stands out to you。
with the things that we covered just now in my story.。
But I just want to pray that God will show you。
how he wants you to grow in community.。
And he will bring you to the right people。
to grow alongside with you as well.。
And there's one more thing the early church community。
has devoted in, and I would like to share on that as well.。
And so let's continue to read the scripture。
in chapter two, verse 44 to 45.。
All the believers were together and had everything in common.。
They sold property and possessions。
to give to anyone who had need.。
This might look a little bit scary to us, right?。
Are you saying we need to sell all our houses。
or like make our savings available to everyone?。
But let's read chapter four together with this passage.。
Perhaps it can give us a little bit more idea。
on how we did that in the church community.。
Let's read chapter four, verse 32 to 37 as well.。
All the believers were one in heart and mind.。
No one claimed that any of their possessions were their own,。
but they shared everything they had.。
With great power, the apostles continued to testify。
to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus.。
And God's grace was so powerfully at work in them all。
that there was no needy person among them.。
For from time to time,。
those who owned land or houses sold them,。
brought the money from the sales。
and put it at the apostles' feet.。
And it was distributed to anyone who had need.。
Joseph, a Levite from Cyprus,。
whom the apostles called Barnabas,。
sold the field he owned and brought the money。
and put it at the apostles' feet.。
So in chapter four,。
we saw that all the believers were one in heart and mind.。
The community is demonstrating。
a very great sense of unity here.。
Their generosity comes from a space。
of spiritual unity in Christ,。
instead of a rule enforced in a church。
that once you turn into a Christian,。
you must sell everything。
and you need to make your money available to the church.。
It was not like that.。
Verse 34 says, "From time to time,。
"the people sell their property。
"and take the money to the apostles."。
It should be a continuous process。
for the Christians to do that.。
So it is more like when people see the need。
in the church community,。
they are convicted and they respond。
with selling their property。
and make the money available for others。
in order to meet the physical needs.。
So when somebody needs, someone respond.。
This is their way of following God.。
They do this because they are passionate。
about God's mission for them,。
which is to spread the gospel,。
to love one another,。
and to meet one another's needs.。
In fact, this is not something new.。
If we look at verse 34,。
it says, "There was no needy person among them."。
The way it expressed in the original language Greek。
is very similar to the Greek translation。
of Deuteronomy 15, verse four.。
So let's look into Deuteronomy as well.。
"However, there need to be no poor people among you.。
"For in the land, the Lord your God。
"is giving you to possess as your inheritance.。
"He will richly bless you。
"if only you fully obey the Lord your God。
"and are careful to follow all these commands。
"I'm giving you today."。
So if we look at the Old Testament,。
there is a lot of laws and commands。
about Israel is to take care of the poor,。
which means it is always on God's heart。
for his people to take care of one another,。
to meet one another's needs.。
If everyone is following God's commands,。
there will be no poor among us.。
This is the picture of justice.。
If everyone is in the right relationship with God。
and with one another,。
then everything will be in the right place.。
Of course, we cannot be perfect.。
We can never be perfect,。
but we can work towards to live more justly.。
And it starts with the right relationship with God.。
For Israel, it was God who led them out of Egypt,。
entering into the promised land,。
and give them rain so that they have food each year,。
which means all they have was from God.。
So God's command for his people。
to take care of the poor is not only about generosity,。
it's a nice virtue for him to teach his people,。
but it is also a way for the people to recognize。
what they have is from God,。
and they remember God's sovereignty。
and his profession over them.。
And as people own more,。
I think we can see that around us as well.。
It is so easy to fall into the temptation。
that what we earn is because we are hardworking,。
because it's our own effort,。
and we forget about it is God who provide for us.。
So God needs his people to see things。
in the right perspective.。
And for us, it is very similar。
to why we tithe and offer in the church,。
because we recognize that all we have is provided from God,。
and this is our relationship with God,。
and we offer to give back to him。
and to participate in his work in this church。
and in this city.。
And also, apart from tithing and offering,。
sometimes we see the needs around ourselves,。
and we can respond directly,。
because we believe that God can provide。
for my brothers and sisters through my actions as well.。
And through my generous acts in our community,。
he provide for our people.。
So this is really the heart behind all things in common。
that comes from recognizing God's proficient。
and the unity within the community,。
to have one heart and one mind,。
which is loving God and loving one another.。
It is more a way of living。
than a practice that we need to adopt,。
so there are more than one way for us to do it.。
So in the early church,。
they did that by selling the procession。
and make the money available.。
And for us today, we can pray and ask。
how we can respond to this call from God as well,。
how we live justly as a community together,。
how we follow God in our finance as well.。
So I was debating how I close this message.。
I written down one of my stories,。
but I feel like today I want to share something。
that I witnessed before the Yuen Long Church was moved here.。
So a few years ago, three, four years ago,。
we at our Fission Sunday, Pastor Andrew shared。
a vision of planting the Yuen Long Church.。
So we asked for offering,。
we set up the fund for the Yuen Long Church plant.。
And so of course, like the first month,。
a lot of people would give, right?。
And then later people were like,。
might forget about it and things like that.。
And, but because of my duty,。
I'm always around on Sundays or like on other days.。
So one time I was next to concierge。
and then the staff, they asked me to go there。
because she couldn't really understand。
what a gentleman needed.。
So I approached and asked how I can help you.。
And so he shared with me that his income is not stable,。
it's not a monthly pay that he will get.。
He get paid whenever he finish some project,。
it could be biweekly, it could be each week,。
or it could be monthly.。
But he wanted, he doesn't have a credit card,。
he has no digital payment.。
And, but he said he is convicted to give。
to the Yuen Long Church plant.。
So whenever he get paid, he will take our part of it。
and he will come to church and ask concierge to help him。
to offer to the church plant project.。
So I helped him at the moment。
and then I just really saw him like irregularly。
that he will come to concierge and give.。
And this is the unity that this brother in Christ。
is demonstrating.。
He heard the vision, he heard the mission from God。
that we are to start a church in Yuen Long.。
And he responded because he owned,。
from the bottom of his heart, he owned that vision。
no matter whether he will be end up。
joining the Yuen Long Church or not.。
At that time, I think the,。
you guys were not meeting in the kindergarten。
and so there was nothing to be seen by the congregation.。
But without seeing it, because of his devotion to God。
and to his brothers and sisters,。
he choose to make what he has not just to himself.。
He choose to share part of it in this vision。
that God has given us as a church.。
So I hope, it's really encouraging for me。
to see so many people today.。
This morning, Cantonese people had so many people。
that was surprising.。
It was not like that last year when I came.。
So I feel like I really want to share this story with you。
that this is what unity means.。
This is what all things in common mean,。
that it is really our devotion to God。
and to the work that he is doing。
and to the people around us.。
So we've covered a lot of different aspects。
in community today, but I wonder what stands out to you.。
As I said before, we don't need to be。
do all things together.。
It will overwhelm us.。
But in this uncharted season, it's really for us。
to step out of our comfort zone and to really seek God.。
What, God, what are you wanting me to do。
in the coming season?。
What are you wanting me to be devoted to。
and to be persistent in in the coming season?。
Perhaps there are areas that you have not。
invited people to step in before.。
Perhaps you're still hesitating about the idea of community.。
Perhaps you're still holding fears。
because of the experience that you had before.。
But let's be encouraged that in this season,。
it is really about following the lead of the Holy Spirit。
and to allow him to bring us to an area。
that we have never experienced before, but God is there.。
So can I invite you to stand?。
I would like to pray for us.。
(footsteps)。
Not sure what resonate with you,。
but I'll encourage you to be open before God and ask him。
to show you how he wants you to take one step forward。
in terms of community.。
If you are struggling with community, with relationships,。
you really want to give up, tell Jesus。
about what you are struggling and ask him for the grace.。
And wisdom to respond.。
If you're struggling to really see。
how you can inform in community,。
how you can grow in community,。
just pray that God will highlight the area。
that you can grow in the coming season.。
If you struggle with being generous,。
just pray to God that he will show us first。
the needs around us and how we ought to respond.。
And we pray that faith will rise。
because we trust that God provides for us.。
(soft music)。
Jesus, we thank you.。
We thank you that you are always working in your church,。
in your community.。
We thank you that you do not intend。
that we follow you by ourselves,。
but we have people around us to grow together,。
to allow us to love other people and to be loved as well.。
Jesus, we thank you for all the people in this room。
who are our brothers and sisters.。
And Lord, we live up what's going on in our heart right now,。
what we are struggling in terms of community life.。
Lord, we first, if any of us are struggling。
with hurt, disappointment in community,。
Lord, we ask for your healing.。
We surrender our fear in front of you.。
And God give us the courage to break through。
and to follow you in this season.。
Help us to trust you more。
and help us to be open to the journey。
that you are about to take us.。
And Lord, show us how we can grow to be more like you.。
Show us where your heart is。
for us to be more involved,。
to be more devoted in our community.。
We pray that you will also allow to bring us。
to the right people so we can grow together.。
We can keep one another accountable.。
We can celebrate our growth together.。
And Lord, give us the grace along the way.。
And we pray for our generosity as well.。
That God, you are so generous.。
So generous to us.。
Teach us to be generous as well.。
Teach us to have the right relationship with you.。
Teach us to see the needs around us。
and convict us to respond.。
We want to be part of your work.。
We want to be your hands and feet。
to give, to love, to care.。
And Lord, we pray that our faith will rise。
as we are giving more.。
We trust that you are our ultimate provision.。
Lord, we ask for your help。
in all the areas that we've just hurt.。
We trust that only by your power we can do that.。
We can follow you.。
So Lord, we ask that your Holy Spirit。
will continue to lead us and guide us。
and lead us into a journey。
definitely we've never experienced before.。
And we thank you in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
