Merry Christmas, everyone.。
Alright, alright.。
You didn't have to. That's so nice.。
So, a week before Christmas in 2014,。
a friend of mine who works for Nike reached out to me and she said,。
"We're having an event, a special lunch event,。
to say thank you to all our clients, our customers,。
our friends of the brand."。
She said, "I'd love you to come to the lunch."。
And I said to her, "Look," you know,。
"my thinking was, look, Christmas is a busy time for us pastors.。
I don't always can fit in lots of social stuff around Christmas.。
This lunch was really not something that really was a priority for me."。
So I reached back out to her and I said, "Look, I thank you so much for your invite.。
I'm not really sure if this is going to work for me."。
And she's like, "Andrew," she's like,。
"there's a very, very famous person coming to this lunch."。
She says, "This person is so famous。
and I will arrange it that you will get to personally meet with this famous person."。
I was like, "Who is this famous person?"。
She's like, "I'm not going to tell you who the famous person is.。
All you need to know is that they're very, very famous。
and you will want to meet them."。
This is like a marketing technique of Nike, okay?。
This is how they get people to their lunches, right?。
So I was intrigued. It worked, right?。
I was intrigued. I'm like, "This priority has now gone up in my priority list."。
So I signed up for the event and a week or so later, I went along to the event.。
I got there early and it was one of those really fancy events。
where there's lots of tables and you're assigned a specific table.。
When you get to your table, there's a little name tag for you on the table.。
So I got to my table, I walked around, I found my name tag。
and I looked at the name tag next to me and I could not believe what I saw.。
The name tag next to me read "David Beckham."。
David Beckham, people!。
David Beckham is going to be sitting next to me for an--。
He's so lucky. Can you imagine how lucky David Beckham is?。
To sit next to me? Wow!。
What a day for Beckham.。
But I couldn't believe that David Beckham was going to sit next to me.。
My heart rate started to go up. My heart rate was pounding.。
I was like, "What am I going to talk to David Beckham about?"。
And I thought about all my sporting hero moments of my life.。
Very short list.。
But I did actually play international football.。
I actually played international football for Hong Kong and I scored a goal.。
I'm like, "I'm going to tell David Beckham about my international football experience."。
And then I realized that's the dumbest thing to ever say。
because he's just going to come back with, "Well, the time that I played in the World Cup."。
So I was super nervous.。
I was like, "I'm not sure what I'm going to say to this guy,。
but how exciting that I'm finally going to meet David Beckham."。
I've been a fan of David Beckham for a long, long time.。
He's a British sporting icon, of course.。
I don't support Manchester United.。
But I do support Newcastle United, and they are the greatest football club ever.。
But even though he wasn't from my team, he was a sporting icon.。
Couldn't wait to meet him.。
So anyway, everybody was coming into this lunch.。
I'm feeling like I'm the guy who's sitting next to the famous guy, so I'm feeling like all cool.。
Everybody's coming in, taking their seats.。
Obviously, the seat next to me is staying empty.。
I figured David would just come up on stage, they'd introduce him, maybe take some photos.。
He might share some words.。
And then he was going to come and sit down next to me.。
So we all sit down for lunch.。
Everybody else on my table sat down.。
The space is next to me.。
And this guy rushes in. He's kind of late.。
He's a little bit overweight, kind of a white guy.。
And he comes in, and he's looking for his place.。
And he comes to our table, and he's walking around the table trying to find his name tag.。
And he comes to exactly where I am and right next to me.。
And he looks at it, and he turns to me.。
He goes, "Oh, hello. I'm sorry I'm late. My name is David Beckham."。
I'm like, "No, it is not! Your name cannot be David Beckham!"。
It turns out that David Beckham is not an international football star.。
He's a chartered accountant.。
That was the David Beckham that sat down next to me for lunch.。
I won't even tell you who the famous person was because they weren't really that famous at all.。
And I got to sit next to a chartered accountant who told me over lunch about his three, what I thought were quite spoiled kids.。
And it really was an absolute nightmare.。
It was probably the most biggest disappointing lunch that I've ever had.。
It was a huge disappointment.。
Why am I telling you a story about a huge disappointment on Christmas morning?。
Because Christmas morning surely is about the most amazing thing, right?。
It's about the fact that Jesus was born.。
It's about the fact that our Savior's come.。
That it's a time to glorify and celebrate and worship as we are gathered here today.。
Why would I talk about the disappointment of meeting somebody that you thought you were going to meet,。
but it didn't turn out to be the one that you were hoping to meet?。
It's because actually on the original Christmas day, some 2,000 years ago,。
a sense of disappointment was actually how a lot of people in Israel felt when Jesus was born.。
So you've got to remember that they were waiting for a very long time for their Messiah.。
They were so excited about meeting their Messiah.。
They had a David Beckham, if you will.。
The one who would come in and take over the world.。
The one that they believed would actually finally get rid of the Romans once and for all.。
In fact, their prophets from old had spoken about the day when the Messiah would come.。
They had a term for it. It was called the Day of Yahweh.。
And when the Messiah came, the way they spoke about it was,。
He's going to be like a mighty warrior, like a warrior king who will ride into Jerusalem on a chariot filled with flames.。
And as He comes in, He will bring an everlasting peace to the world.。
So the evil Greco-Roman Empire will be banished forever.。
And it will be like this Messiah will come with an army of angels,。
and they will fight a battle against the Romans.。
The Romans will be defeated.。
And what will be established will be the Jewish and Israel Empire forever and ever. Amen.。
That's what they were looking for.。
That's what they were expecting.。
They were looking for a Messiah who would be a warring king.。
Now, you can understand why they were expecting this.。
Imagine what it would be like to be a minority group in a majority culture。
that is constantly telling you that power is held in those who are the strongest,。
who have the armies, and who are oppressive in how they do that power on everybody else.。
In the first century, the Israels were under the oppressive regime of the Roman Empire.。
They were suffering under that regime.。
They didn't have the freedoms that they wanted to have,。
and they wanted their Messiah to come and overthrow an empire that was around them.。
And because that empire was all built on war, on violence, on oppression,。
and the use of power to oppress,。
it's understandable that the Jewish people were looking for a Messiah。
who would be able to war himself, defeat the battles and the armies of the Romans,。
and establish Israel forever.。
So if that was the David Beckham you were expecting to meet,。
imagine how surprised you were on Christmas Day.。
When there wasn't a warring king that broke from the clouds on a chariot。
to overthrow the Roman Empire,。
and instead there was a child, a baby,。
but not just any baby, not a baby born in a castle。
or a baby born in an incredible temple somewhere,。
but a baby born in a smelly, stinky cave under a house.。
That's apparently the Messiah.。
So the Jewish people struggled to understand this.。
Now interestingly, the way that Luke presents the arrival of the Messiah,。
he plays on this tension that there is。
between what the Jewish people's expectations were。
and what the reality was in the coming person of Jesus as a child.。
Let me pick up the story for you from Luke 2,。
part of the story that Elizabeth just read to us a moment ago,。
starting in verse 10.。
"But the angels said to them, 'Do not be afraid, speaking to the shepherds.。
I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people.。
For today in the town of David a Saviour has been born to you.。
He is the Christ, the Messiah, the Anointed One, the Lord.'。
The angels do come on that day, just as the Jewish people were expecting,。
but not an army of angels to overthrow the Romans,。
a choir of angels singing songs.。
And these angels speak to a group of shepherds,。
not again the famous people that you'd expect God to speak to,。
but outcasts, nomads, those that were almost rejected by their own people.。
It is these outcasts that God decides to make the first announcement。
of the arrival of His Son to.。
And the angels show up and say all the right things about the Messiah.。
First of all, they say, 'This is good news.'。
They declare good news because the news is of hope,。
and the ancient prophets of old had spoken about the news。
being a good news for all people.。
They mention that He's born in the town of David, the city of David,。
which was their belief, that the Messiah would come from the Davidic dynasty,。
the line of King David.。
Eventually the Messiah would come from the bloodline of David,。
and here they are telling the shepherds that the Messiah has come。
in the town of David.。
Then they say the Messiah has arrived, has come, this anointed one, the Lord.。
So you can imagine that the shepherds are super excited at this point,。
and they're still expecting to go into Bethlehem, the town of David,。
and meet some mighty warring king who's about to kick off some violent war。
so that the Romans would be defeated.。
Notice what then, in the midst of that tension and expectation,。
the shepherds say.。
Verse 12, "This will be a sign to you.。
You will find a baby wrapped in cloths, lying in a manger."。
You could almost imagine the shepherds going,。
'Oh my gosh, the Messiah has come. I can't wait.'。
'This will be a sign to you. You will see a baby wrapped in cloths。
and lying in the manger.'。
I'm sorry?。
Sorry, can you just say that last bit again?。
We got you up to that point, but what was that last part?。
The Messiah is going to be a baby?。
A baby wrapped in cloths, lying in a poor manger?。
That's not quite what we ordered.。
You ever been to a restaurant and received something that you have not ordered?。
I can almost imagine the shepherds going,。
'Could we speak to the manager, please?'。
Like this is not what they expected.。
Now, I want you to see that actually this is everything。
that God is trying to communicate on Christmas Day.。
And as we gather to celebrate Christmas Day today,。
it's actually this that we are gathering to celebrate.。
Notice what the angels say right at the start.。
It says, "This will be a sign to you."。
"This will be a sign to you."。
Now, how we so often interpret that normally。
is that the angels are basically saying,。
"Here are some divine directions to get to Bethlehem。
so that you can find the right person who's the Messiah."。
"This will be the directions for you. You'll find a baby in wraps in cloths."。
That's not what they're saying.。
They're not trying to give them some like directions to Bethlehem.。
In fact, the word that's in the Greek, the original language for sign here,。
literally translates to something that is beyond,。
something that points to something beyond.。
It's the same word that Luke's going to go on to use。
to speak about Jesus' miracles.。
He'll say, "These are a sign."。
He does these miracles as a sign。
because they point beyond themselves to the coming power of the kingdom。
and the nature and the character of God.。
Well, the angels use the same word here.。
They say, "Here is a sign to you."。
Something that points beyond the reality of what it is.。
In other words, the Messiah hasn't come as a warring king as you expected.。
He's actually come as a baby,。
wrapped in cloths, lying in a manger,。
and that is a sign to you.。
It's a message to you that points beyond what it is.。
And the question we should ask ourselves on Christmas Day is,。
what's the message?。
What's the sign?。
Well, think about it for a moment.。
What is the sign of a child being born?。
I mean, a child comes into this world completely defenseless,。
completely vulnerable.。
A child is born into this world completely at the mercy of its parents。
to be fed, clothed, cared for, looked after,。
completely vulnerable and exposed.。
A child comes into this world completely at the need of others.。
You could not get a more different picture。
between a warring Caesar on a chariot。
and a poor, defenseless child.。
And that, the angels are saying, is a sign to you.。
A sign to you that God's ways are different from the ways of this world.。
A sign to you that actually power is different in God's kingdom。
than the power that is seen in this world.。
In fact, I would put it like this,。
that the Christmas story is that true power, victory and hope。
is not found in the expected strengths of the powers of this world,。
but the unexpected fragility of the innocence of a child.。
That, my friends, is the heart of the Christmas story.。
That if you want to know where true power lies,。
if you want to know where actually hope and salvation can come from,。
it doesn't come from the worldly structures and definitions of power.。
It doesn't come from political context.。
It doesn't come from armies and bombs and guns and drones and war.。
That's not where power is found.。
The true power that sets people free, that raises from the dead,。
that resurrects people, that gives people hope,。
that pays the price for sin,。
that power is found in the innocence of the weak,。
and it's the weak who become strong in God's kingdom.。
That's a sign to you, the angels say.。
A sign to you that you need to shift your thinking about where power lies.。
A sign for you to understand that if you're a Christian,。
if you hold the name of Christ,。
then you have to be on the side of the innocent,。
on the side of the vulnerable, on the side of the marginalized,。
on the side of the poor,。
on the side of the ones that are rejected by everybody else,。
because that's how Christ came into the world.。
And if Christ comes into the world as a sign to us,。
we have to lean into that side of the world.。
We are the ones who should stand against。
the ways in which power is manipulated in the systems of this world。
and instead glorify in the subversive, table-flipping nature。
of God's kingdom and the trueness of power.。
Think of it this way.。
God's way of saving the world is a child wrapped in cloth,。
not a warrior wrapped in armor.。
And that, my friends, is a very important message for our world today.。
If you think about over the things that are happening in 2023。
as we draw this year to a close,。
if you have a look around the world at the wars and the political infighting,。
if you look at the divisiveness of communities,。
if you look at the way that hate is being used more and more,。
if we look at some of the darkness that there still is here in the world,。
this message of Christmas should ring true for us more now。
than perhaps ever before.。
And although the expectations of the Jewish people in that day。
was to find something that fitted more into the world's perspective,。
God shows up and says, "No, we Christians do things slightly differently.。
There's an alternative way of thinking, an alternative way of being,。
an alternative way of living."。
And that should still be a sign to the world that Jesus has come.。
And so in a way, there's a fire that gets placed within us。
if we're Christians at Christmas time,。
that any time we actually reach out to a vulnerable, marginalized community。
and we help them and serve them and love them,。
it's a sign to the world that Jesus has come.。
Any time we help the oppressed get freedom and new life,。
any time we work with the innocent。
and help them to be found that they are not guilty,。
we are a sign that Jesus is here.。
Any time war ceases,。
any time power that is being abused is stripped from someone,。
any time the vulnerable find safety and home,。
it's a sign that Jesus is still here.。
I love the way that the Apostle Paul speaks of the incarnation of Jesus at Christmas time,。
writing to the church, and a church that was heavily oppressed,。
and actually a church that was under a huge amount of persecution.。
Here's how Paul writes to his church.。
He says, "Your attitude," in Philippians 2, "should be the same as Christ Jesus,。
who being in the very nature of God, did not consider equality with God something to be grasped,。
but instead made himself," notice this, "nothing,。
taking on the very nature of a servant, being made in human likeness,。
and being found in the appearance of a man," notice, "he humbled himself。
and became obedient to death, even death on a cross,。
the very weapon that the Greco-Roman Empire used to keep themselves in power,。
would become the very thing that Jesus would humbly submit himself to,。
so that he could reveal true power to the world.。
Therefore God exalted him to the highest place,。
and gave him the name that is above every name,。
that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow,。
in heaven and on earth and under the earth,。
and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord,。
to the glory of the Father."。
Isn't that so beautiful?。
He's saying, "This is the incarnation.。
This is a sign to you," he's saying, "Church,。
that God decided not to hold power like the world holds power,。
but to humble himself, strip himself of power, if you will,。
come down to this world as a defenseless child,。
to be a man amongst us, so through that he would submit himself。
to the will of his Father, be raised from the dead,。
take the sins of the world on his shoulders,。
pay the price so that we would be free."。
This is the story of the gospel,。
and it starts not with a warring king in a fiery chariot,。
but with an innocent child in a dirty stable.。
It's a profound invitation for Christians on Christmas。
to declare a different spirit in this world,。
a different way of understanding power.。
I wonder if you could think about it this way.。
Imagine if the angels came today,。
maybe here's some of the sort of things they might say.。
"This will be a sign to you.。
You will find a church wrapped in the pain of its community,。
lying in the poorest of the poorest communities, bringing hope."。
Or maybe the angel would say, "And this will be a sign to you.。
You will find believers in Christ Jesus。
wrapped in the hope of the gospel, lying in the marketplace。
and the workplaces and their families。
and their spheres of influencing, offering hope."。
Or maybe I would say, "And you will find me,。
and this will be a sign to you.。
You'll find me wrapped too often in the cares。
and the worries of this world,。
but lying in the nurturing arms of my Father。
and finding my shalom and peace there."。
This, my friends, is the story of Christmas.。
And Paul says, "Your attitude, your mindset,。
the way you think should be like this,。
not the warring, powerful, mighty thing that the world would say,。
but the innocent, weak thing that through God is made strong."。
This is why Jesus's beatitudes are so important to us.。
Those who mourn will be comforted.。
Those who've been rejected will be welcomed.。
Those who are poor will be found rich in Him,。
but those who are rich will be stripped down.。
The reversal of the heart of God。
to take the broken things of this world。
and make them true and strong.。
That's what we gather together today to celebrate.。
And so my encouragement to you on Christmas Day,。
and I pray that this would inspire you and fill you with hope,。
is that if you are to live out the Christmas message,。
it is to live out that message,。
that we are people who see power in a different way.。
We are people who see love in a different way.。
And we are people who carry a message that is truly good news.。
May we walk towards the vulnerable, marginalize the poor.。
We walk towards those who need the message the most。
and offer them true hope.。
That's the mission of Christmas.。
It's what we gather to celebrate today.。
And as we worship Him and sing,。
and as we open the presents later on。
and have the incredible food for lunch that we'll have,。
may we do so in a spirit of true gratefulness。
for the humility of a God who shows us a different way.。
That, my friends, is Christmas.。
Amen.。
Would you stand with me?。
I would love to pray with you.。
Let's stand together.。
Father, I'm just so grateful for each person here today,。
on Christmas Day.。
And Father, while of course we long。
to meet the David Beckhams of this world,。
we're grateful.。
We're grateful for every person.。
The people who are standing around us right now,。
the people in our neighborhoods,。
our apartment buildings, our communities,。
the people in our offices and our workplaces,。
the people that you've surrounded us with,。
we are grateful for them.。
Father, I pray that you would put a fire in the vine。
and a fire amongst us as your people.。
To be people who love justice,。
people who fight for the vulnerable,。
people who stand for the nonviolent gospel。
that you have given to us in the infancy of a child.。
Lord, I pray that this would be our Christmas message,。
that there is the great hope in the world,。
that the darkness is dark,。
but it has not overcome us.。
That there is, because of Christmas,。
a light that has come into this world。
in the form of an innocent, vulnerable child。
to show us that despite everything happening for us,。
God can meet us too.。
In our own vulnerability,。
in our own brokenness,。
he can be there.。
Father, I pray for anyone here in this room。
that maybe doesn't know you,。
but maybe today they've been invited。
by friends and family and they've come here。
and they've heard a story and a message。
about a God who does things differently。
to what we see in this world.。
Lord, I pray that that message。
would be an encouragement to them.。
And I pray that you would bring many。
in this room today towards you.。
Father, we thank you that at Christmas,。
we have this joyous sign。
that you have not left the world。
to spiral out of control,。
but you have stepped in to bring hope.。
That Jesus himself would go on to say,。
I've not come to kill and destroy,。
but I've come to bring life and life abundant.。
I wanna pray, Lord, for every person。
here at the Vine this year。
that they would know and feel life and life abundant.。
And Lord, if there is anyone in here。
who's feeling lowly,。
who's feeling an outcast,。
who's feeling vulnerable,。
who's feeling overwhelmed,。
I pray that they would know。
that Jesus has humbled himself。
and has stepped into the lowliest of places。
so that he would know exactly。
how they're feeling right now.。
And so that he would bring a comfort to say,。
I've been there, I know what that's like.。
And if you come to me, I will give you peace.。
Thank you that the angels would declare。
over the shepherds, peace on earth.。
And Lord, that's what we desire.。
With all the wars that are happening,。
with the political angst that is amongst us,。
with so many divisive perspectives。
that spew hate rather than love,。
we pray peace on earth.。
And we pray this in the name of Jesus.。
Everyone says, amen, amen.。
Can we worship together?。
Let's continue to worship as a community.。
[ Music ]。
