Or please put your hand up if there's an empty seat next to you.。
There's one empty seat over here, hosts.。
Are you looking for a seat?。
Are you looking for a seat?。
There's one right here for you.。
It's got your name on it.。
It says right there.。
Anyone else?。
If you've got a seat next to you, just put your hand up.。
We're absolutely rammed in the room, in the overflow, but we want to try and make sure。
that everybody can get a seat if they need to.。
If you're new to the Vine, welcome.。
My name is Andrew.。
I'm one of the pastors here, and it's a real joy to have you with us.。
We've been in a series over the month of January.。
We've been doing that 21-day fast during the month, and we've been in this series each。
Sunday unpacking Psalm 27 and specifically speaking into seasons of waiting.。
I want to draw some of those threads together with you today, but I want to bring a fresh。
word on seasons of waiting that I sense will be helpful, challenging perhaps, but helpful。
for you.。
I want to frame that by telling you a quick story.。
When I was 10 years old, my father and I, we went on a camping trip.。
It was a three-night, four-day camping trip with the group of scouts that I was involved。
in at the time.。
There was about 50 of us in this scout troop.。
We were living in Connecticut in the US at this time, and every year we would have this。
annual camp where for three nights and four days we would travel two hours north of where。
we were living in Connecticut, literally into the wilderness to this well-known campsite。
that was up on a bit of a hill, on a bit of a ridge, and that was surrounded by a river,。
a river that was quite a fast-flowing river, a bit raging kind of river, but this beautiful。
river that ran alongside of this campsite, the campsite up on the hill, and then there。
was this steep slope, and there was this river.。
We looked forward to this every year, and I remember this particular year, there's literally。
a parade of 50 vehicles driving out for two hours to the campsite, and as soon as we got。
to the campsite, we did what we always did.。
The doors would open, the dads would get out, they would grab the tents, and the dads, even。
though we were scouts, we were probably supposed to do it, but hey, the dads would put all。
the tents up and get that all ready, and then the scouts would just mill around and do stuff,。
and on this particular year, I grabbed two of my good friends and I said, "Let's go down。
to the river."。
Now, we weren't allowed to go down to the river, because the river, like I said, was。
a bit of a raging river, and we were still pretty young and somewhat dangerous, and because。
it was a bit of a steep slope down there as well, so we weren't allowed to go down to。
the river without an adult present with us, but anyway, I said to my two friends, "Look,。
let's just go down to the river.。
It'll be fun.。
I want to see how cold the river is this time of year."。
So we did.。
We ran down the steep slope towards the river.。
Now, I ran faster than anyone else, and I got down to the river first.。
So if you can picture this with me for a moment, this stage here is the raging river.。
I'm standing kind of right next to this raging river, and as I'm standing there looking at。
this beautiful sight, I hear a sound, and it's a sound that I've not heard before, and。
it's a sound that I pray to Jesus I will never hear it again, but sometimes it wakes me up。
in my nightmares.。
It was this low, soft to begin with, and then grew more and more buzzing kind of sound,。
and so as I'm facing the river, I'm hearing behind me this ever-growing crescendo of buzzing。
sounds, and I turn around, and I see a wall of hornets in front of me.。
It was like a curtain of hornets angrily flying right in front of me, and as I see them, I。
look down, and I notice my right foot is completely covered in hornets.。
Now, I don't know if you know much about hornets, but I'm going to educate you now a little。
bit about hornets.。
There's two things, two important things you need to know about hornets.。
Here's the first thing.。
Hornets, unlike bees, bees in Europe, for example, you know those big, fat, fluffy bees,。
you know the cute little bees, right?。
They create hives in the trees, in the limbs of the trees.。
Hornets, however, like to bury their nests in the roots of a tree system.。
So they like to do it in the ground, if you will.。
So at some point on the run down this steep slope to the river, I must have stepped on。
a hornet's nest.。
And as I stepped on this hornet's nest, I ended up by the side of the water, and suddenly。
there's this crazy curtain of hornets flying around, super angry, and I must have had like。
20 or 30 hornets gathered on my foot.。
Here's the second thing you need to know about hornets that is different from bees.。
Bees, the big, fat, cute, fluffy ones that you get in Europe, they're a one and done。
insect.。
If they sting you, they die.。
The worst you'll ever get from a bee is one sting.。
Hornets, however.。
I don't know why, but God decided to create hornets with the ability to sting as much。
as they want.。
I mean, I get making bees sting you once and die.。
That makes sense, right?。
God was fair there, but for whatever reason, he created hornets to be able to sting their。
victims as many times as they want.。
So I'm standing there with a bunch of hornets on my foot, a curtain of hornets in front。
of me, and I have a decision to make.。
Here's the decision.。
Do I do the smart thing and go back to the river and dunk myself in the river so that。
I don't get stung and that nobody else gets stung, and I kind of sit in this river until。
the hornets go away, or, I'm 10 years old, remember, do I run to my daddy?。
Again, I don't know about you, but if you're feeling fear, if you're dealing with a situation。
like this, whilst the sensible thing for everybody would have been for me to get in the water,。
I ran as fast as I could through that curtain of hornets, and I ran as fast as I could up。
the steep slope back in to the campsite.。
Now funnily enough, the hornets decided to follow me up the hill, and literally as I。
ran into the campsite, all of these hornets ran in or flew in with me, and they started。
to sting anything that they could potentially sting.。
It's hard to describe it, but it was literally pandemonium in this campsite.。
There were dads, you know, doing this, like kids running around screaming with their hands。
in the air.。
I had hornets in my hair, hornets everywhere.。
My dad at one point grabbed me, threw me into the car.。
We got into the car.。
We slammed the doors.。
Now, this was a while ago, right?。
So then we wound the windows up as quickly as we could in the car.。
As we're winding the windows up, hornets are flying into the car.。
I swear, we had about 10 hornets in the car with us.。
Once the windows were up, they were flying all around, stinging us.。
My dad had some newspaper.。
He was smacking these hornets, you know.。
I had them everywhere.。
And because of the absolute chaos that was happening, not surprisingly, dads started。
to drive home.。
So people just started leaving.。
And I had 28 stings in the end, 28 stings.。
And I was not the worst off.。
There were others that had 35 to 40 hornet stings that day.。
And all of the dads put their kids in the car and they drive the two hours back home.。
They're basically like, "This camp is done because Andrew stepped in a hornet's nest."。
Can you imagine what those two-hour drives back home must have been like, all the kids。
crying and nursing their stings?。
I had to have a bath in this pink liquid.。
It was like pink cement liquid to soothe all of the 28 stings that I had for the week afterwards.。
Two days after we get back from this camp, having driven two hours, literally being there。
for about an hour, and drove two hours back, we heard on the news that a storm came through。
that part of Connecticut.。
It was actually one of the worst storms that had been recorded for quite a number of years。
in that part of Connecticut.。
And as we were listening to the reports, we found out that two days after we had arrived。
at the camp and then gone home, two days later, the storm was so bad that a massive landslide。
had happened at that campsite, and that a huge amount of the ground and the earth on。
the campsite was washed away into the water.。
And as we're hearing about this report, my dad turns to me and he says something that。
at the time, I really didn't understand, but even to this day, I still struggle to comprehend.。
He said this.。
He said, "Who would have guessed that those hornets were for our good?"。
You know when your dad or mom says something and you're like, "For our good?"。
Like I had 28 stings.。
There's nothing good about 28 hornet stings, right?。
My whole reputation as a 10-year-old crushed.。
Every scout in the Connecticut state know about what happened here.。
My friends are not responding to me.。
They're laughing at me.。
This was for our good.。
I'm kind of wrestling with this reality.。
And of course, at the time, it didn't feel right, but later, I began to understand the。
truth in what my dad said.。
For some reason that I still struggle to comprehend to this day, some reason that seems hard for。
us to understand.。
Could it have been that actually me stepping in that hornet's nest was actually the best。
thing for everybody at the camp?。
Could it be that what I thought was a mistake was actually not a mistake at all?。
Could it be that what I thought was definitely not good for me actually was the greatest。
good for everyone else?。
As David finishes Psalm 27, a Psalm where he's been talking about waiting seasons, where。
he's been confidently speaking about God and how he acts within waiting seasons, he's not。
finished yet.。
And as he gets right to the end, I think he says the most profound thing in the whole。
of the Psalm and yet the thing that is perhaps of the greatest challenge to us.。
Let me read to you what he says.。
He says, "I am still confident of this.。
I will see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living."。
I am still confident of this, he says.。
I will see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living.。
When he starts, he says, "I am still confident of this."。
Now, if you're reading Psalm 27, that should cause you to go back because that's basically。
David saying, "Despite everything that has happened to me, here's what still remains.。
Here's the one thing that I can still find great confidence in despite all the challenges,。
all the hardship, all the things that were there.。
Here it is, God is good," which should blow your mind because let me just remind you of。
the things that he's been saying in Psalm 27 here, "Evil men advance against me to devour。
my flesh, my enemies, an army besiege me, war breaks out, enemies surround me, my father。
and my mother have forsaken me, false witnesses rise up against me.。
If I had only one of those things going on in my life, I would struggle to think that。
God was good."。
And here's David saying, "This is the reality for me and I'm in a season of waiting where。
I'm believing that God can deliver me.。
But despite the reality of my circumstance and situation, here's what I'm confident of,。
my God is good."。
And when I hear that, I think to myself, "I want a faith like that.。
Do I have a faith like that?"。
One of the reasons why David can say that he's confident in the goodness of the Lord。
is because of what he says right at the end.。
He says, "In the land of the living."。
I love this about David.。
He doesn't say, "Here's where the confidence comes from."。
It comes from the fact, and this is true, that at the end of all things, God is going。
to make the world right.。
He doesn't say, "My confidence comes that even if my suffering goes on for the rest。
of my life, it's okay, because at the end of all things, God will make everything right."。
Now obviously, David, Old Testament, but for us as a Christian church, the New Testament。
church, we're of course saying, "We know Jesus is returning."。
Amen?。
And we know that when he comes, no more sickness, no more death, no more pain, no more sin.。
We know that everything will be made right.。
We know that whatever brokenness is still in our lives will be resurrected with him.。
Resurrected bodies living in the new Jerusalem, heaven come to earth.。
We have great hope in the goodness of God when we see that goodness defined for us as。
an end thing, but that's not where David's confidence is.。
He says, "You want to know where my confidence is?"。
Yes, it's true that God is coming back to restore all things, but here's where my confidence。
is.。
I get to see that goodness now.。
That goodness is not a future event.。
That goodness is not something that I should hold onto as like, "Well, I'm just going to。
tough it out in life until I get to heaven."。
He's saying, "Here's my confidence.。
God is good full stop."。
And because he's good full stop, he's good right now.。
God is good right here, right now.。
And because that is true, his goodness is always an ever-present hope, regardless of。
what's going on, regardless of struggle, regardless of circumstance, as painful and as hard as。
things are and we all feel them, his goodness is an ever-present hope.。
And I don't know about you, but I find myself struggling to agree with David a little bit.。
And I wonder why it might be that so often as Christians, we know maybe theoretically。
that God is good, but do we actually live in the way that proves that we know that he。
is good?。
It's interesting because I want to help you to understand what I think David is meaning。
when he says, "I'm still confident of this.。
I will see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living."。
And then I want to bring that back to the passage.。
I want to step away from the scripture for a sec, do a bit of theology with you and then。
bring you back.。
Is that okay?。
I know it's 11 o'clock and I know you're hungry for dim sum, but we're going to do a little。
bit of theology.。
Is that all right?。
Because when the Bible says that God is good, it is saying two intrinsic things about him.。
It is saying one thing about his nature and another thing about his benevolence.。
So one thing about who he is and one thing about what he does.。
So I want you to have a look at this, defining God's goodness.。
This is how the Bible, I'm pulling together all this passages and all the threads to kind。
of give you a sense of what the Bible means when it says God is good.。
There is his nature, his benevolence, who he is, what he does.。
On the left side, on the good side of his nature, here's the thing.。
There is no evil and no sin in him.。
That's the primary definition of understanding the intrinsic nature of God's goodness.。
There's no evil, there's no sin, there's no darkness, there's no black, there's no nothing.。
There's only righteousness and good and justice and life within him.。
His very nature.。
In other words, God isn't just an attribute or goodness isn't just an attribute of God.。
It is his very essence.。
It is part of his very nature.。
He's good, no evil, no sin.。
So therefore there's absolute perfection in him.。
Absolute perfection, like nothing defected, nothing wrong, nothing broken.。
He is the only true perfect being in this world, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit.。
And because of that, if you click on to the next slide, because of that, what you'll see。
is that there is fairness and righteousness and justice within him.。
Again, not the thing he does, who he is.。
Fairness, righteousness, justice, absolute perfection, no evil, no sin.。
When we say God is good, that's primarily what we are declaring.。
Now interestingly though, if this on the left side is your nature and who you are, then。
of course out of that is going to come some behavior, right?。
Out of that place of the depth of who we are will become what we do.。
So there is this action of God that is linked to his nature of goodness.。
So we see things like mercy and kindness and love.。
When God self-describes himself in the Old Testament, these are the words that he uses。
about himself, merciful, kind, chesed, the Hebrew, loving kindness, full of love and。
compassion.。
We see his generosity and his patience with us.。
We see the power that is there in the beautiful ways in which he offers life to us.。
And then we know inside of that, if you click on the right side here, he's working to create。
wholeness and shalom.。
Church, this is really important to understand.。
Because of God's nature and his character in depth into this goodness, he is always,。
note this, always working towards wholeness and shalom in this world.。
And yes, again, that means Jesus will return at one point to instill the wholeness completely。
in this world.。
But even right now through redemptive history, through the church, Paul would write, through。
the church, the manifold wisdom of God is known in this world.。
So through us, broken people, but in relationship with Jesus, redeemed by his spirit, he is。
moving his wholeness, his shalom, he's moving all of creation towards his good.。
Does that make sense?。
So when, okay, so let me show you a couple of scriptures just so that you know I'm not。
making this up.。
You can have a look at some of these.。
You can read them in your own time.。
There's many, many others in scripture.。
But all of this captures for us that when the Bible says God is good, it's a statement。
of his nature, it's a statement of his action, and it's a statement that he's moving the。
whole world to a place of restlessness, shalom, and newness in him.。
So my friends, when David says here, "I am still confident of this, I will see the goodness。
of the Lord in the land of the living," that definition is what he's talking about.。
He's saying, "I'm going to see God's goodness," because he is of the nature good, and he acts。
good, and he's not just good in the future, but he's good right now.。
And because I know that he has mercy and kindness and love, and because I know that there is。
no evil or sin in him, and because I know he's moving everything towards a perfect place。
of restoration and shalom, I am confident of this, that I'm going to see it in the here。
and now.。
Such trust and faith in the nature and the character of God.。
It is a profound thing.。
Now, don't misunderstand me or David here.。
What we're not saying here is that every bad thing that happens to you is just God's goodness.。
He did it, and he's good, right?。
There's no...。
Listen to this.。
There's no evil in God, but there is evil in this world.。
Are you with me?。
There is brokenness, and sin, and evil, and Satan, and demons.。
There is stuff in this world that is evil.。
Sometimes things happen to us because of evil in this world.。
So this is not like, "Okay, God is good, therefore, all that abuse I suffered as a kid, well,。
I guess I have to accept that it was good."。
That's not what I think David is saying.。
It's certainly not what I'm trying to preach.。
Sometimes bad stuff happens to us, and it's a travesty.。
It's unjust, and it should not have been.。
But here's what I think David is saying.。
He's saying even in the times where evil is at work in us, evil will never overcome fully。
good, and that God is able to bring his good through every situation.。
So when we say God is good, we're not saying all the suffering in my life is good.。
What we're saying is this process of God bringing all of the world in his hand, in his sovereignty,。
towards his wholeness means that even the most traumatized person, the most broken person,。
the most abused person in the hands of Jesus can be made whole, can find life, can be renewed.。
And we, because we believe that, we can say no matter what is at work, God is good.。
Now I don't know about you, but you know that phrase when somebody says, "God is good,"。
and everybody replies?。
Okay, we're going to try it one more time.。
The answer, by the way, is all the time.。
Everybody got it?。
Okay, here we go.。
God is good.。
God is good.。
I know, I know, but I don't know if we believe it.。
Here's what I say, and I'm a pastor.。
Here's what often I find myself saying, "God is good, yep, all the time that his goodness。
feels good for me."。
I think one of the reasons why we read Psalm 27, verse 13, and we love it so much is because。
we put ourselves in it.。
When we go, "I am so confident of this, I will see the goodness of the Lord in the land。
of the living."。
Oh, great.。
Well, what that means is then the thing that I'm praying for will get answered, because。
that will be good for me, or that thing that I've been waiting for, well, I guess that。
will come through.。
That's why I believe.。
I've just got to have faith to believe that I'll see the goodness of God in the land of。
the living.。
What we're thinking there is I have things in my life that I would define as if God did。
this, I would think he's good.。
Are you with me?。
So we've turned the idea of some objective definition of God's goodness into a subjective。
understanding of goodness, and when God doesn't do the things that we subjectively think,。
"Well, if that happened, I would think he's good," we then think he's not good.。
We begin to question his goodness because we've allowed a personal definition of what。
that goodness might feel like for us to override what the Bible says about the glory of his。
goodness.。
Think of it this way.。
God's goodness is not up for negotiation, nor is it a subjective truth.。
When the Bible says God is good, it is a statement about his person and about his actions, irrespective。
of whether you perceive that you've experienced it or not.。
That's a deep truth.。
That's a hard truth.。
That's not a comfortable thing to think about when you're in a season of waiting, but when。
David says, "I'm still confident in this.。
I will see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living," let me tell you this.。
He's not saying, "I'm going to see the goodness of the Lord for me in the land of the living."。
Well, that would be great, wouldn't it?。
Wouldn't that be an amazing passage to take home with you and put on your fridge or somewhere,。
put on your mood board somewhere?。
Like, "Oh, yeah, yeah, I believe that the goodness of God for me in the land of the。
living."。
That's actually not what David is saying.。
Here's what he's saying.。
"I know that my confidence comes in the fact that I will see the goodness of God for him。
in the land of the living, because he is good.。
And I know he's working that goodness in the world."。
And I think ultimately, of course, David knows that if he trusts in the goodness of God for。
God, he's going to get swept up personally into that goodness, and that'll be great.。
But he's not saying, "My definition of God's goodness is whether God will do X, Y, or Z。
for me."。
He's saying, "God is good.。
Even if God doesn't do X, Y, and Z, I'm standing on the truth that my confidence comes that。
his outworking of Shalom, and restoration, and wholeness, he's working for the good for。
all.。
Oh, the hornets still sting.。
And I don't know why the hornets come, but could it be that the hornets stop me from。
the raging storm?"。
So when David says this, I think really what he's trying to finish his psalm with is this.。
This is hard, but listen.。
I think what he's really saying is sometimes God's goodness to you is a period of waiting.。
That's sometimes God's goodness to us.。
Sometimes God's goodness to us is a period of hardship.。
It's a period of challenge.。
God's goodness does not always mean our pleasure.。
Come on church.。
I know this is not easy, but stick with me.。
God's goodness does not always mean immediately our pleasure.。
Sometimes God's goodness means our discipline.。
Sometimes it means refining us.。
Sometimes it means a season of waiting and trusting in him, and during that season, having。
him forge within us a new perspective of his kindness and his love and his grace that we've。
never had before, so that in the season that's coming down the road that we could never expect。
or know was coming, we might have a newfound resilience in us that we did not have before.。
I love the psalmist, Psalm 119 verse 71.。
Let me read this to you.。
This is like deep discipleship.。
He says, "It was good for me to be afflicted so that I might learn your decrees."。
I think that's a depth of discipleship and a depth of faith that I aspire to get to,。
that we could actually stand before a good God and say, "You know, sometimes if I hadn't。
been afflicted, if the hornets hadn't stung, if that hadn't have happened, I would never。
have experienced your kindness like I have now.。
I would never have known your love like I do now.。
I mean, I didn't want to go through it, but I know that you're good, and I know that what。
it's done is forged inside of me something I needed to know about you that I could never。
have known otherwise.。
It was good for me to have to wait.。
It was good for me not to get what I wanted straight away.。
It was good for me that the hornets stung so that I would not be there when the storm。
came.。
Oh, I didn't understand it.。
I didn't know it, but here's what I'm confident in.。
He is good."。
David's not saying God is good in the way of because he's going to remove all the obstacles。
from me.。
Sometimes the obstacles don't move.。
Sometimes the obstacles are there to shape us and form us.。
Sometimes the mountain is not removed, but the mountain is to be climbed.。
That mountain is not a punishment, perhaps it's a preparation.。
Sometimes God places things into our lives that at the time we do not understand, we。
do not know, and would we want it?。
Maybe not.。
Would we choose for it?。
Maybe not, but I wonder whether we might be able to elevate ourselves to the level where。
we would say, "He is still good and that I trust that that goodness will come."。
Let me also say this, by the way, this is also another tough one.。
Sometimes God's goodness for someone else is his goodness to you.。
Come on, guys.。
Sometimes God's goodness to someone else is actually his goodness to you.。
The Bible says we rejoice with those who rejoice and we mourn with those who mourn.。
But so often for us Christians, myself in this camp, remember I shared with you two。
weeks ago that I'm in a long waiting season myself.。
So often when you're in a waiting season and you see God bless someone else, that feels。
really unfair.。
And I get it.。
When my wife and I were trying for children, everybody got pregnant around us.。
Have you ever had a season like that?。
Where like you've been trying for two years to have a child, and it seems like two other。
people just look at each other and they're pregnant?。
Anyone ever had that experience?。
It's like babies are popping out all over the place.。
And the first time that happens, you're like, "Woo!" for them.。
And then like the ninth time it happens, you're like, "Urgh."。
Or even in the adoption process, my wife and I were in the adoption process for two and。
a half years.。
And it was like we had a cohort of people that got into that process at the same time。
as us, and everybody else kept getting matched.。
We never got matched, not for two and a half years.。
Rejoice with those who rejoice, mourn with those who mourn.。
Because God's blessing on somebody else is actually His goodness to you.。
This is why David finishes.。
I want to try and wrap this up so we can pray.。
This is why David finishes with, "I am still confident on this.。
I will see the goodness of the Lord."。
Notice this, church.。
He does not say, "I will hear about the goodness of God from someone else."。
He doesn't say, "I'm going to learn about His goodness."。
He doesn't say that the goodness of God is a rumor to him.。
He says, "I will see it.。
I will encounter it.。
It will be a part of my life.。
I will know that it is there.。
I won't just have a theory or a theology of the goodness.。
I will encounter it.。
It will shape me.。
It will move me.。
I know that in this land of living right here and right now, that goodness will be part。
of who I am."。
He's saying, "I'm going to see it," which is a beautiful thing.。
I kind of agree with David, although this is a bit of a controversial thought, but I。
actually agree with David that it is not hard to see the goodness of God in the land of。
the living.。
I think one thing that we've got to be very careful of as Christians in particular, but。
human beings in general, is that our social media feeds and our news feeds are constantly。
telling us that there is no good in this world anymore, that there are no good people, that。
there are no good things, that there's just bad things, the economy is this, the economy。
is that, life is this, life is that, and are there bad things and tough stuff happening。
right now in the world?。
Absolutely.。
I'm not downplaying that, but I think God has called the church to actually stand against。
the lie that there is not the goodness of God in the land of the living, that maybe。
the church might be able to rise up and find its voice and actually say, "There is good。
in this world, that God has created this world good, and yes, there is sin and brokenness。
and evil like I was talking about before, but those things do not have the final say.。
My God, who has died and risen again, has sent his spirit.。
The same spirit that raised Jesus from the dead is now in me, and perhaps that means。
that some of the nature of God's goodness, some of the fruits of who he is, also now。
lives in me.。
Could it be that when David said, "I'm going to see the goodness of the Lord in the land。
of the living," what he was talking about was his people?。
Was he talking about those people that had relationship with God?。
In other words, God's goodness is not just in the world and around the world, God's goodness。
by his spirit now, if you are a born-again believer in Jesus, is in you, that goodness。
in you and through you, so when you offer to pray for someone, they might experience。
something of the goodness of God.。
When you bring a quiet word of encouragement to someone who's feeling down, there's something。
of the goodness of God that is seen.。
When you stand for justice for the oppressed and the vulnerable in our city, something。
of God's goodness is seen.。
When David says, "Here's what I'm confident in, I will see the goodness of the Lord in。
the land of the living," I think what he's saying is, "I'm confident that God's people。
will reveal something of that goodness in this world."。
So here's the challenging thought I want to close on.。
While we wait on God, could it be that God is waiting on us?。
When I look around this room, across our services here at the Vine on a Sunday, you guys know。
I'm in a season of waiting and it's been painful.。
When I look around this room, I can say I'm confident that I will see the goodness of。
the Lord in the land of the living because I see you guys and you see me and you pray。
for me and you send me words of encouragement and you stand for me and we pray for you and。
we send you words of encouragement and I believe as a community, as a church, we can confidently。
say that that goodness of God is not a theoretical reality, it is an encounter.。
And that's what we want to do now.。
We want to pray for that encounter for you.。
So here's what I want to do.。
I want to invite everybody to stand, would you stand with me?。
And if you're in the upper house in a moment, there's pastors and prayer ministers here。
in the upper house.。
There'll be a couple in the lower part of the house and there'll be a couple in the。
upper part of the house up there and in a moment, they'll be ready to pray for you.。
Here in the lower house, we're going to have a whole bunch of our pastors and elders and。
prayer team here in the lower house and here's the thing, we will pray for absolutely every。
person who wants prayer.。
We do these extended times of prayer ministry once a quarter here at the Vine and they're。
such a gift and I'm so excited that we get to do this together today.。
It's only 13 past 12.。
We have over 20 minutes to be able to pray for one another and I want to encourage you。
not to leave.。
I know the temptation will be, perhaps for some of you, I get it, "Oh, the sermon's done,。
time to go home."。
The most important part of the service is right now.。
The Holy Spirit has been speaking to you, maybe today or throughout this series.。
The Lord God is here in His power.。
The goodness of God.。
For some of you in this room, you need to redefine your understanding of the goodness。
of God and people want to pray for you today.。
Some of you here, perhaps there's been something that's happened throughout this series or。
during your fast and you're like, "I need someone just to lay their hands on me and。
pray for me."。
Perhaps for some of you, you're shaking like that picture I had earlier, fear or exhaustion。
and you just need someone to offer a word of help and love and life to you.。
Or perhaps for some of you, it's like, "I've struggled to see the goodness of God recently,"。
and maybe somebody could pray that goodness into you.。
Pray that your eyes would be open to see the incredible goodness of God that is around。
you right now.。
Or maybe it's not related to anything I've been talking about at all, but you've just。
got something in your spirit and you're like, "I need someone to pray that into my life.。
I've got a pain here, I need healing here, there's something happening in my family there.。
I want someone to stand with me."。
We want to pray for you.。
And so we're going to do this in an atmosphere of worship.。
This is also for those who are outside.。
If you're in our overflow right now, we want to invite you to come into the auditorium。
to receive prayer.。
If you would like to pray, we'll pray for you here in the low house.。
We will make time to pray for everybody.。
And I want to encourage you to have the courage to receive what it might be that the Lord。
has for you.。
Wouldn't it be amazing if everybody here would get prayed for today?。
So can we just close our eyes?。
And I'm going to invite our prayer ministry and our worship team and our pastors, elders。
to be positioned now just to come and pray.。
And Father, I want to pray for every person here.。
Lord, what a joy it is to serve a God who is intrinsically good.。
And Lord, most of us know the hornet stings, and we know that that can diminish our feeling。
of your goodness in our lives, but Lord, we come together as a community of faith today。
to pray for one another, that we would be confident to see the goodness of the Lord。
in the land of the living.。
So Lord, I pray for those that need a new perspective, you would bring it by your spirit。
today.。
For those that want to encounter God's goodness.。
Maybe it's been some time since they encountered the goodness of God, and they're like, I need。
to encounter it.。
I want to encounter it.。
Lord, we pray for that encounter to happen in these moments.。
Lord, for those that are just desperate for healing, restoration, new life, Lord, would。
you bring it.。
Lord, we pray for the release of prophetic words in this room right now in the name of。
Jesus.。
Lord, as we pray for one another, we would not be praying human words, but words that。
come direct from the spirit of God for people here.。
Lord, would your ministry flow, your spirit flow, would your people come alive?。
And we pray this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says.。
All right.。
Our prayer team are ready.。
They're going to come forward.。
Please do come out.。
Don't be shy.。
It's a first come, first serve basis, and we're going to just pray for you and love。
on you.。
So let's do that now.。
