Hey, it's so good to see you all.。
I think for once I actually feel healthy.。
So I've been having a lot of colds.。
It's just good to feel good.。
This is the second time actually that I lived in Hong Kong.。
So I've lived in Germany.。
I lived in the US.。
I lived in Germany.。
I lived in Hong Kong.。
I lived in the US.。
I lived in Germany--。
Hong Kong.。
So anyhow, it's back and forth.。
So these three countries I'm circling.。
And when I was in my 30s here in Hong Kong, I had this--。
I don't know.。
I don't even know exactly what I was doing.。
I was reflecting, praying.。
And I just suddenly was overcome with this just sense。
of gratitude just for God's goodness.。
And specifically for the people that God。
had placed in my life to just come around me, to support me,。
to encourage me, to love me, to help me in very practical ways.。
So one of those people was Ryan.。
When I was my first year in university, I was in the US.。
My English was not good.。
And I really struggled with writing papers.。
So Ryan, he came alongside me.。
And he helped me with editing my papers.。
There was no AI.。
He helped me with editing my papers。
and teaching me how to write better.。
And I really needed it.。
And I saw, wow, God loved me through Ryan。
and provided for me through Ryan.。
Then I thought of Deborah, I should say,。
Professor Deborah Worden.。
And she encouraged me in my studies。
and saw something in me that I didn't see myself.。
She opened up an internship opportunity, not something。
that was already a professional internship.。
And it really helped me.。
So again, God had placed a person around me。
that helped me in a very practical way.。
And that encouraged me.。
Then there was Stephen.。
Now Stephen was an incredible Christian leader.。
But he was also a vulnerable person.。
So he shared vulnerably about some of the challenges。
he was facing.。
And when I was facing challenges, guess who I went to?。
I went to Stephen.。
And I didn't even know what to say.。
I couldn't even put into words what was going on with me.。
And then he invited me into a men's group.。
And this men's group encouraged me and helped。
me journey through some difficulties。
that I was facing.。
So these are all these ways, and more, of course,。
but just some examples of how God loved。
and how he cared for me through people.。
So as I was sitting there in this realization。
of God's goodness and his grace and his provision,。
I suddenly had the Holy Spirit nudge me and saying,。
it's your turn.。
So I was like, ooh, what does that mean?。
It's your turn.。
And so it was not like--。
I was actually a pastor at this time.。
So it's not like I wasn't helping people or serving。
people.。
But I knew that the Holy Spirit was asking。
me to go deeper in letting God's love, his grace, his mercy。
flow through me to other people.。
That too long had I been, to use the image of a river,。
I had this river of God's love, care, provision。
flow through me to me from other people.。
But then on the other end, there was just。
a little trickle that came out.。
And God wanted me not only to receive all these blessings.。
We sang earlier, I am blessed.。
And I'm anointed.。
And I'm loved.。
And that's all true.。
And that's amazing.。
But he didn't want his blessings, his mercy, his love,。
his grace to stop with me.。
He wanted that to flow through me。
in a fuller and in a deeper way.。
And so I don't know where you are on this journey.。
I really believe this is a journey.。
This is not a one-time thing in terms。
of letting God's love and grace and mercy flow through us.。
Maybe for you, the starting point。
is even coming to know Jesus and coming to know his love.。
Maybe that's you.。
Maybe you're here and you're just figuring out,。
is this Christian thing?。
Is this something that makes sense, something。
that I believe?。
But wherever you are on this journey,。
whether you're not a Christian or you are a Christian,。
you know God's love.。
He is inviting us today to allow the Holy Spirit to do work in us。
and to love and serve the people that he has placed around us,。
and maybe even some people we don't even know yet,。
and just to uplift them, to build them up,。
and to be tangible expressions of the love of God.。
And so what I want to do with you today。
is I want to explore this question.。
It's how can we become people and communities。
through whom God's love, grace, and peace increasingly。
flows to those around us?。
How do we do that?。
How do we even get started on this journey?。
So that's what we're going to explore through this message.。
Now we are in our final message of Forward Together,。
where we've been taking some time to really align。
our hearts with each other, to talk about unity,。
and keeping the unity, and maintaining the unity。
that the Spirit of God has brought about。
when he has made us brothers and sisters in Christ.。
That's our job to work through things, and to be humble,。
and to be gentle, and to be patient, and to be loving,。
and to work through our differences.。
And instead of walking away, we've。
been looking at that we come from different backgrounds, who。
have different values, and different perspectives,。
and different experiences.。
And we come from different generations,。
but yet God has brought us together.。
And he doesn't want to diminish our diversity.。
He actually wants to use it.。
So everybody has something to contribute.。
Everybody has something to offer.。
Everybody has something unique to image from who God is.。
And so through you, with you being here,。
God reveals part of who he is, and will do something unique。
because you are there.。
And that's equally true for every single person.。
And so then we also looked at children.。
You don't know how hard children-- they're not。
the future of the church, not some nuance--。
not nuance, whatever that English word is.。
You can choose your own English word.。
Still learning the language, right?。
But that they are already part of God's family,。
that they are already contributing,。
that we can learn from them, that they are examples of how。
we receive God's love, and how we can depend on him,。
and trust him.。
So Pastor June talked about this.。
And so we wanted to take this time。
because we want to move forward together。
into uncharted territories, which is。
part of our vision this year, and to do the work that God has。
for us, the good work, so we can do them together.。
And we're not one group's rushing ahead,。
and others are staying behind.。
But that we are aligned, that we are unified,。
and that we are together moving into that direction.。
And so today, let me set the background for the text。
that we're going to look at.。
We're in Paul's letter to the Ephesians.。
Now, the Ephesians or Ephesus, or the letter to Ephesians。
was written to new Christians.。
It was people who had just come to faith.。
They came from different religious backgrounds,。
most of them.。
And Paul really wanted them to understand。
their identity in Christ.。
Because just because we're Christian。
doesn't mean that we have clarity about who Jesus is,。
the significance of his death for us,。
about our own Christian identity,。
and about our identity as a church, as a people of God,。
as a body of Christ.。
And so in the first three chapters,。
Paul unpacks the significance of the salvation。
in a beautiful way.。
So if you've never done this, read--。
actually, read all of Ephesians, but especially。
first three chapters, he really just。
unpacks the implications of Jesus's death and resurrection。
and his love.。
And so-- and we're going to be in that section today.。
But we're going to pick things up right。
after Paul has been talking about individual salvation,。
where he has talked about that you were dead in your sins,。
but now you have been made alive with Christ,。
that you're not saved out of your own strength。
or your works, but you're saved by grace through faith alone.。
And so right after that, that's where we pick up.。
And that's where we focus on the corporate aspect of salvation.。
And so here we are, Ephesians 2, verse 11.。
Let me start there.。
"Therefore remember that formerly you,。
who are Gentiles by birth and called uncircumcised by those。
who call themselves the circumcision which。
is done in the body by human hands,。
remember that at that time you were separated from Christ,。
excluded from citizenship in Israel,。
and foreigners to the covenant of the promise without hope。
and without God in the world.。
But now in Christ Jesus, you who once were far away。
have been brought near by the blood of Christ.。
For he himself is our peace, who has made the two groups one。
and has destroyed the barrier, the dividing wall of hostility。
by setting aside in his flesh the law with the commands。
and the regulations.。
His purpose was to create in himself one new humanity out。
of the two, thus making peace, and in one body。
to reconcile both them to God through the cross by which he。
put to death their hostility."。
So Paul here, he starts off by reminding。
the Ephesian Christians of their former division。
between Jews and Gentiles.。
Now Gentiles is basically everyone who's not a Jew.。
So Ephesus had people from all over the world,。
similar to Hong Kong.。
So there was Greeks, there was Romans,。
there was Egyptians and Persians.。
It was a multicultural city.。
But there was division between people.。
There was hatred and hostility between people.。
And one way we can see that is where。
it says that the Jewish people called。
the Gentiles uncircumcised.。
Now for us, that probably doesn't mean much.。
But basically, that was an insult.。
I was saying, you're not part of the covenant of God.。
You're not part of God's promises.。
And the Gentiles, we know from the historian Josephus,。
they returned the favor.。
They called them the circumcised one,。
and they made fun of them.。
So there's a name calling.。
And I think we--。
I don't want to get into names today,。
but we all know names that one group of people。
call another group of people, and that。
are there to put people down.。
And so that's what's going on here.。
But there is a second way that we can see this division.。
And it's in verse 14, a little phrase.。
In the text through Jesus, this is already being resolved.。
But I want to look at that a little bit.。
It talks about the dividing wall of hostility.。
That there was-- before they became a family,。
there was a dividing wall of hostility between them.。
Now, there is a chance or a good likelihood。
that this actually referred to a literal dividing wall。
in the Jerusalem temple, where there was。
an inner court and an outer court.。
So in the outer court, women and Gentiles were allowed to be in.。
But there was a wall that divided the outer court。
from the inner court.。
And in the inner court, Gentiles were not allowed to go into.。
And there was actually warning signs in multiple languages。
that if you're Gentile and you go in,。
it is punishable by death.。
And you can actually see those signs in a museum in Jerusalem.。
So those things, the signs are there.。
And this wall, whether Paul is exactly referring to that。
or if he's referring simply to the division,。
so metaphorically, between Jews and Gentiles。
through the Mosaic law and the promises of God.。
And it doesn't matter.。
But Paul is talking about that there was a division。
and there was a hostility.。
But I think one thing that's important is to remember,。
God called Israel and brought as his chosen people。
to be a light to the nations, not。
to create hostility between them and other people.。
And so something had gone wrong.。
And we can see this also in the name calling.。
And so basically, what happened is--。
and this happens all over the world.。
This happens today.。
We do it to one degree or another.。
It's where we declare one group of people。
and one thing they do as good.。
And we declare another group of people as bad.。
We elevate one practice that one group does over a practice。
that another group does.。
When Pastor Chapman talked about generations,。
he talked about generational differences。
to just illustrate this a little bit more.。
Now, I'm part of Gen X, barely.。
Actually, some research says that I'm part of no generation.。
I'm like, it's in between.。
And my generation, they gripe and they。
complain about millennials.。
Even though I might--。
according to some, I'm also part of millennials.。
I'm like in between.。
So I'm safe.。
I can talk from--。
stand with one foot in one and one foot in the other.。
And so one of the things that people say,。
they're like, oh, this generation。
doesn't have resilience.。
They don't know how to work hard.。
They just always want things according to exactly how。
they want it, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.。
And that is a way of elevating things that are good.。
Working hard, being resilient, those are good things.。
But it's like elevating and creating this virtue.。
But it's elevating in order to put down.。
And when we do that, when we consistently do that,。
it creates division.。
It creates hostility.。
It creates brokenness.。
And so when we elevate ourselves and dismiss others,。
we actively construct walls of division。
that's hostilely between us.。
Now, this was not something that just Jewish people did。
or Gentiles did.。
It's something we all do today.。
We take what is good about ourselves。
and elevate it so that we can feel superior to others.。
This might be about our math.。
I'm great at math.。
This is something superior.。
This person is not great at math.。
So I am somehow better than this other person.。
Or maybe I'm really into fitness and this other person's not fit.。
Or maybe-- whatever it is, you understand what I'm saying.。
So we all do that.。
And we have these judgments in our hearts.。
And if we keep carrying them, then they bring division.。
They bring brokenness.。
And we can see this.。
We can see this division and this hostility in the world.。
We can see this in wars between countries.。
We can see this in racism.。
We can see this in ageism.。
We can see this in generational disputes.。
We can see this down political lines.。
I mean, this is just rampant everywhere.。
And it's part of our sinfulness and pride.。
And that is-- we take something that's good from God,。
and we turn it into something ugly,。
and something that divides, and something destroys,。
and something that is hurtful.。
And so Paul is saying to the Ephesians--。
I know this was long--。
but Paul is saying to the Ephesians,。
that's where you were.。
That's how you were relating to each other,。
in hostility and hatred.。
You were putting each other down.。
But then something changed.。
Something powerful happened.。
And so let's continue here in verse 13.。
Or we've already read it, but I want to reread it.。
"But now in Christ Jesus, you who were once far away。
have been brought near by the blood of Christ.。
For he himself is our peace, who has made the two groups one,。
and has destroyed the barrier, the dividing wall of hostility,。
by setting aside in his flesh the law with its commands。
and regulations.。
His purpose was to create in himself one new humanity out。
of the two, thus making peace, and in one body。
to reconcile both of them to God through the cross。
by which he put to death their hostility."。
And so through Jesus' death and resurrection,。
he has made peace between groups who。
were at odds with each other.。
He has removed the sin, the brokenness, the offense,。
and has brought these two groups together.。
And actually, this is new creative work.。
This is by the power of God.。
Just when he created creation, he。
has done something new by the power of God。
through the spirit of God.。
And he has made these two groups of people one.。
And that is part of the gospel message.。
We are sinful and broken people.。
We all carry these things where we put others down。
and we elevate ourselves.。
But Jesus died for our sins in our place。
so we can be forgiven for the offenses。
that we carry in our hearts, for the words that we've spoken,。
for the actions that we've done, and that we。
can receive his forgiveness, be reconciled to God, whom。
we offended, but then also be reconciled to each other。
and be brought into the family of God.。
God's new creation.。
And this is amazing.。
And this is beautiful.。
And actually, even just us sitting here,。
it's so powerful that we are people。
from such different walks of life.。
But the power of Jesus has brought us here together。
as brothers and sisters.。
And he has made us one body, one family, one new humanity.。
It describes it in different ways.。
And that's amazing.。
And that's a powerful display of the power of God。
when we receive his forgiveness, when we experience his love,。
that transformation happens.。
Something changes.。
And that's God's heart.。
Jesus came because we needed him to come,。
because he came to redeem, to reconcile, to renew.。
All that is broken.。
And guess what?。
Our relationships were broken.。
And we've experienced the pain and the hurt.。
And we still do even now.。
The pain and the hurt and the brokenness between hostility。
between people.。
But Jesus came to make all things new,。
to set all things right, to heal what is broken.。
That's God's heart.。
And so that's what he has done.。
And now it's up to us.。
In the first week of the series, I。
preach about keeping the unity.。
So Jesus has brought the unity.。
He has brought the reconciliation.。
But it's our job to maintain it, to keep the unity of the spirit.。
And we talked about that we do that by focusing on the gospel.。
And we talked about that we do that instead of being prideful.。
We want to embrace humbleness instead of being harsh.。
We want to be gentle instead of being impatient.。
We want to be patient.。
And we are that, not out of our own strength,。
but by the work of the spirit of God in us.。
As we learn to rely on him, as we。
learn to be filled with the spirit and filled with his love,。
where we're able to relate to each other in a different way。
and to live out this reconciliation。
that Jesus Christ has won for us.。
And when we do that, it is a powerful display.。
Us gathering here is a powerful display and declaration。
of the power of God to take what is divided, what is broken,。
and to make it one, to bring healing.。
Now, I heard one time one theologian。
talk about that the church is a movie trailer.。
Has anyone here recently seen a movie, a movie theater?。
OK, we have a few moviegoers or are also a little hesitant.。
When you watch a trailer in a movie。
and you're with a friend, what do you do?。
Hey, that looked amazing.。
I want to see this.。
Or it's like, oh my gosh, who'd want to go and see this movie?。
That's like a whole-- there was like nothing even interesting。
in this trailer and they're already selecting what's best.。
Well, the church is meant to be a trailer of the kingdom of God,。
of the gospel message.。
And it's on display for the world to see.。
And so when we live in love and reconciliation。
with each other, others can see what's going on.。
We can see that the spirit of God。
is at work in the community, that he。
has brought love and grace flowing。
through the community to each other and doing healing,。
has done healing work.。
And that powerfully testifies to the gospel message.。
And also it supports-- when we declare the gospel。
and we live reconciled lives with each other,。
it makes that declaration powerful。
because we're actually living out what we're talking about.。
And so God broadcasts that through us as a community.。
But he also has brought us together for a unique purpose.。
Now, there are many churches in Yulong,。
and every church has a unique purpose.。
Remember, we're not comparison, trying to elevate one,。
put one down.。
Every church has a unique purpose.。
Well, we have a unique purpose.。
We're English speaking, Cantonese speaking,。
so we have different languages.。
We're multicultural.。
And we're able, because of who we。
are, to do work in this community。
that other churches maybe are not able to do.。
And we're able to receive people that maybe other churches are。
not situated.。
And that is God's purpose.。
This is part of the mission of God that he has entrusted us.。
And he wants his grace, his love.。
He wants that to flow through us as a community, among us,。
but also out into the community.。
And I've heard from multiple organizations。
that we partner with that we are the right organization。
to partner with, that they have been praying for a place。
like the Vine in Yulong.。
Because we're able to--。
this is just God's heart.。
This is what God wanted in Yulong.。
And again, it's not about comparing to other churches.。
Other churches, God's calling them to reach people。
that we cannot reach.。
But we're called, because of who we are,。
to love, to serve a unique population group of people。
here in this area.。
And that is amazing.。
And it is beautiful.。
And God wants to work through all of us.。
So it's significant that we come together.。
It's significant, the work that Christ has done.。
Because he wants to have his love flow out through us。
into the community and make his name known.。
He wants to bring more people into the family of God。
so that they can also experience his healing。
in their relationship with the Father, the Son,。
and the Holy Spirit, but also in relationship with other people.。
He wants to bring wholeness.。
He wants to bring peace.。
Which even-- so the New Testament's concept。
of peace is the Hebrew concept of shalom,。
which means wholeness, where God wants。
to make whole what is not whole.。
And so we are a community of people。
that has part of their purpose.。
This is to bring wholeness and let wholeness flow through us。
to those around us where there's brokenness, where there's tears,。
where there's pain, where there's hurt.。
God wants to use us to bring his wholeness, his goodness,。
his love to bear on other people's lives。
so their lives can be changed.。
They can know the love of God.。
Their life can be transformed.。
And so that's what he wants to do through us as a community.。
And I'm totally in a completely different place in my script,。
so let me figure out where we're going here.。
All right, let's go to Ephesians 2, 17 through 18.。
So there it says, "He came and he preached peace to you.。
Who are far away and peace to those who are near.。
For through him we both have access。
to the Father by one spirit."。
Now this is interesting because he preached peace.。
So he's talking about Jesus.。
Preached peace to those who were far and those who were near.。
So far, the Gentiles, but also those who are near,。
they also needed Jesus to preach peace.。
Because everybody needs to respond。
to the saving work of Jesus, the peace-bringing work of Jesus.。
And it's only through him that we have access。
to the Father by one spirit.。
And that's humbling because there's。
nobody who stands on a different place.。
We all stand on the same ground.。
We're all sinful, broken people in need of the grace of God.。
And so we come empty-handed.。
Every single one of us comes empty-handed。
and can only, by God's grace, receive。
his forgiveness and his new life in Jesus.。
And he brings us into his family.。
But let's continue.。
So Paul then summarizes things.。
And he's saying, God has done this incredible work。
and has brought you together, reconciled you with another.。
And so he kind of summarized that.。
Let's look at that in verse 19.。
"Consequently," which is like, therefore,。
so based on what has happened before,。
"you are no longer foreigners and strangers,。
but fellow citizens with God's people。
and also a member of his household,。
built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets。
with Christ Jesus himself as a chief cornerstone.。
In him, the whole building is joined together。
and rises to become a holy temple in the Lord.。
And in him, you too are being built together。
to become a dwelling in which God lives by his spirit."。
And so this is highlighting to the Ephesians。
and also to us here today that Jesus' saving work was not just。
so we can have a personal relationship with Jesus, which。
he also did that for that reason,。
but he also has done a saving work to form a new community.。
And he uses several words.。
Before verse 19, he talks about new humanity, body of Christ.。
Now he talks about fellow citizens with God's people,。
members of the household of God, a holy temple。
that's being built together in whom God's spirit lives.。
And so we, you and me, we are the church.。
We are people indwelled by the Holy Spirit.。
The presence of God is moving among us.。
When we worship, when we come together, the love of God。
is being poured out into us.。
And God is building us up through this community.。
He's using our gifts, our talents, our spiritual gifts。
to encourage each other, to lift each other up,。
to give us grace so that we mature and image。
Jesus in a fuller and a more beautiful way,。
because that's what God is doing in our character.。
He's making us more like Jesus, but he uses each other.。
So when we get here, it's like you。
can think of a gas station.。
We're coming here, and we're being filled up.。
We're being built up.。
We're being recharged.。
But we're not filled up so that it just stays with us.。
We're filled up.。
We're showing love.。
We're showing grace so that it can flow through us。
into the world, into Yuen Long, into Hong Kong and beyond.。
And there is a false narrative in the church.。
And I feel very strongly about it.。
There's a lie.。
And that's whenever-- and I can feel this even myself.。
Whenever I talk about us doing evangelism,。
whenever I talk about us going out and serving,。
that right away, there's this idea,。
oh, I first need to be filled before I can do anything.。
And yes, we need to be filled, but you're。
filled to be poured out.。
And so don't be sidelined in what God wants to do.。
You're broken.。
You're a mess.。
You know what?。
Maybe you're exactly the right person。
through whom God wants his grace to shine。
into somebody else's life.。
You don't have it all together.。
That's OK.。
Again, maybe you're exactly the right person that somebody--。
because how you authentically are sharing,。
how Jesus is doing work in your life,。
that he can work through you.。
So this is not about us somehow needing。
to sit there and reach a place of perfection.。
And only then can we serve God.。
Only then can we let God's love flow through us。
as a community, as individuals.。
But he wants to do that now.。
So don't let Satan sideline you in the mission of Jesus,。
of renewing all things and making things whole.。
Can I get an amen?。
Amen.。
Come on.。
So at the beginning of Ephesians, Paul,。
he talks about that we've been blessed。
with every spiritual blessing, Ephesians 1, verse 3.。
And then he actually unpacks these blessings.。
And in that, he also talks that it's。
God's will to bring unity to all things in heaven。
and on earth under Christ.。
So God wants to-- in other words,。
God wants to set everything right.。
He wants to make everything whole.。
He wants to make everything new.。
And he wants us, his church, to be。
part of bringing renewal, love, hope, peace,。
peace where there's brokenness, where there's anxiety,。
love where people don't know that they are loved,。
there is somebody who infinitely loves them,。
whose heart breaks for them when they are not doing good,。
and who just wants them to know that they are desired,。
they are wanted.。
And so much desire that-- and we know, if you ever wonder,。
how does Jesus feel about you?。
How does God feel about you?。
We look at Jesus and him dying on the cross.。
That answers that question.。
He loves you so much that you were。
worth dying for on the cross.。
He laid down his life.。
And he wants people to know that.。
He wants people to know that.。
People who are not loved, who are not in their families。
and their environments.。
And so church, people of God, people filled with the Holy。
Spirit right here, let's not just。
have a little water trickle through us of God's love。
and his blessing.。
Let's have his grace, his mercy just flow fully through us。
to those around us.。
So this brings me back to the opening question.。
How can we become people and communities。
to whom God's love and grace and peace increasingly。
flows to those around us?。
How do you do that?。
What do you do?。
Well, first, of course, it starts actually with us。
knowing Jesus and knowing his love,。
knowing our identity in him.。
And we always have to be reminded of that.。
It's like a never-ending thing.。
Like we forget it, we lose track of it.。
And we're reminded through that when。
we meditate on the cross, on what Jesus has done,。
when we spend time in intimacy with God and his word。
and in prayer, where he just speaks to us about who he is。
and reveals to us in a deeper way who he is.。
And so he just wants us to be secure in our love,。
that we don't have to put others down,。
that we are free to focus on other people。
and not just on ourselves.。
Because we are loved by the creator of the universe who。
makes that known to us.。
We are deeply loved.。
And so it starts with that.。
We need to know God's love personally.。
And then as a community, we're meant to make God's love。
visible, where it's not visible, where it's not seen,。
where it's not tangible.。
Now, this is not rocket science.。
We make it complicated.。
And of course, we want to have strategies and blah, blah, blah。
and all that stuff.。
But this is literally in your workplace,。
in the place where you live, when。
you go outside and walk out here and see someone,。
just paying attention and being available to God。
to be used by him.。
And then maybe it's just taking time to listen to someone.。
And by listening, that's an act of love.。
It's one of the greatest gifts you can give to someone。
is to listen to them, to seek to understand them.。
And then when you listen to them,。
you find out stuff out about their lives,。
maybe what challenges that they're facing.。
And then maybe you pray for them.。
Maybe you practically help them with their need.。
I want to share a story, and it's a little bit weird.。
I actually was struggling with whether or not。
I shared this or not.。
And I want to use that a little bit as a metaphor for us。
to think about how we make the love of Jesus visible.。
So when I first came to the Vine,。
I had gone through a loss of relationship.。
And I was grieving.。
And I was a mess.。
And I was not functioning right.。
It was the hardest thing in my life.。
I've had my father pass away, had other things happen.。
But this one hit differently.。
And so I come-- I'm actually amazed the Vine hired me.。
I was a mess, not functioning right.。
Every Sunday service, I'm crying.。
I have tears in my eyes.。
But it's healing tears.。
Because as I came here, in the worship, through the messages,。
the Holy Spirit was doing some renewing and some healing work。
in my heart and life.。
But then at that time, the Vine had a tradition.。
If you knew pastor in a pastoral prayer time,。
they hot seat you.。
Now, you're like, if you have no idea what a hot seat is,。
I didn't know what a hot seat was.。
It's like basically you sit down in a chair.。
And then everyone comes around you from that team。
and they start praying for you.。
They start sharing scripture.。
They start sharing prophetic words.。
So I was sitting there.。
And they don't know my story.。
So they don't know details about my life at this time.。
And I mean, what they're saying, it's just wrecking me.。
I mean, it's God just speaking through them.。
Like, you know, weeping and snot and tears.。
And then you have to imagine there's like 20 hands like on me。
and I'm sitting there like this.。
And I want to kind of blow my nose and wipe my tears,。
but I can't do it unless I want to say, you know, get off me.。
And so I'm sitting there and I'm literally have this dilemma。
in my mind.。
And then suddenly somebody puts a Kleenex in my hand.。
And I was like, I still can't do anything with this.。
And so he realizes it and he actually wipes my face.。
Now, I have to say, generally speaking,。
I wouldn't want another man wiping my face.。
Just putting that out there.。
But for me, it was such a powerful moment, you know,。
because it really wasn't -- it was not just him.。
It was an expression of the love of God。
who had seen my tears.。
You know, the ones that when I'm on my own, crying in my room,。
maybe even when I didn't have tears anymore to cry.。
And then here, you know, it was like as if God。
was wiping away my tears.。
And interestingly enough, I can't ever remember。
somebody wiping my tears.。
I'm sure my parents did.。
I just don't remember.。
You know, but it was such a powerful。
and such a prominent moment.。
So as we think about God's love, God's grace。
flowing through us, you know, what are some of these。
metaphorical tears that you see around you。
that God wants you to go and wipe。
and bring comfort to?。
You know, where do you see heartache?。
Where do you see practical needs?。
You know, God will use you.。
He will show you what to do.。
When I had this experience as a 30-year-old man,。
I didn't know what to do.。
So I prayed, "God, what do you want to do?。
Show me."。
Well, he showed me two very specific things.。
I'm just going to share one briefly,。
and then I'll wrap things up.。
I was an associate pastor at the time,。
and there was a former youth of mine。
who was just graduating high school.。
She came from a low-income family.。
She didn't get into university in Hong Kong.。
Excuse me.。
But she got into university in the U.S.,。
but she didn't have any money.。
And I realized I knew people who probably。
would be willing to help her.。
And so then I shared this with somebody who also knew her,。
and he was like, "Let me get some of the people。
who have these resources together。
to help her go to university in the U.S."。
But they didn't want her to know who was helping her,。
so they asked me to sort of administrate。
these funds and things,。
which, if you know me, I don't like administration,。
but God was calling me to do it.。
And so then for four years, I administrated these funds。
and sent it to her,。
and she went to university, graduated,。
lives in the U.S., has a beautiful family,。
but God had placed so many people around me to bless me,。
and now he was using me to bless others。
in super tangible and practical ways,。
and he wants to use you, too.。
Now, I have an image here for us.。
If you know, this is our river vision。
as a Vine Church, Wan Chai Yun Long.。
And so part of the vision is that God wants his river。
to flow all over Hong Kong.。
He wants to bring his living water into a parched land.。
He wants to make his peace known.。
He wants to bring wholeness.。
He wants to bring salvation,。
and he wants to use us, his church, his people,。
who are his chosen instrument to do that,。
for his river to flow.。
And so I use that image of a river flowing into me.。
Don't be a dead end.。
Let God's river flow through you.。
So right now, what I wanna invite you to do。
is to turn to each other and to pray for each other。
that we will let God's love, God's grace。
flow through us to the people around us,。
and that God will bring healing, hope, comfort,。
practical help, transformation to those。
who are disadvantaged, those who are lonely,。
those who are hurt.。
And so let's do this right now.。
I wanna also invite the worship team to come up.。
Let's turn to each other.。
Let's take some time and pray for each other。
that the river of God, that the living water。
flows through us and doesn't get stuck in us.。
All right, sounds good?。
Let's do it, church.。
