- Amen, amen, awesome.。
Have a seat, have a seat.。
Well, welcome to The Vine.。
If this is your first time with us ever,。
we're glad that you're here.。
If this is your first time with us in 2026,。
we're glad that you're here with us.。
We know that many people have been traveling。
and some of you are here with us。
for the first time this year, so welcome back.。
Last week, I introduced to us the idea。
that as a leadership here at The Vine in this season,。
the beginning of 26, we're feeling very led by the Lord。
to teach into the context of seasons of waiting。
and that the reality might be for you。
that you're either in a season of waiting right now。
or maybe you've just come out of one。
or you're gonna be heading into one,。
but for all of us, we know what it is。
to be in seasons of waiting,。
to struggle in the realities。
that we're waiting for something to happen。
that we expect it to happen but hasn't happened.。
And we believe that what the Holy Spirit wants to do。
in the first part of this year for us。
is that Jesus wants to meet us pastorally。
and compassionately and powerfully renew our strength.。
So if you're in a season of waiting,。
this is a very encouraging next number of weeks for you,。
or if you're not, you may well enter into one。
in the near future and the things that we're gonna teach。
over this series will be helpful tools for you。
for the season that might be ahead.。
We shared last week that we don't like waiting。
as human beings, waiting is hard.。
In fact, in our modern world, in our modern context,。
we're now conditioned not to wait,。
that the idea is that things need to happen quickly。
and fast and that actually as human beings。
in this modern world that we live in,。
we put a very high value on the things that happen quickly.。
If something takes time or doesn't come as quickly。
as we would want it, we generally see that。
as something that we see lesser value in.。
So we have this driving sense。
that the good things come quickly。
and bad things or weak things。
or things that are not as valuable。
are often the things that take time.。
And we as Christians, we talked about last week,。
we brought this into our faith, haven't we?。
And we have this mindset that God needs to act。
and he needs to act immediately.。
And if God doesn't act immediately,。
then there's a, often in us as Christians,。
we devalue him, that we ask questions about him,。
that we second guess his nature.。
This is what we do as Christians。
when it seems like there's a delay,。
where there's a promise that we thought was gonna happen。
that didn't happen, there was a prayer for healing。
that we were hoping for that didn't seem to take place,。
that there was an expected word from God。
that didn't seem to come in the timeframe。
that we were expecting.。
We either will do one of two things.。
We will either doubt God and judge his character。
or we will often doubt ourselves and judge our own.。
Oh, there's some sin in me, there's some brokenness in me,。
there's something wrong with me,。
which is why God is not doing what I'm expecting him to do.。
And we saw last week that there are over 200 passages。
of scripture on the idea of waiting.。
And if you do a survey of those scriptures,。
basically generally what the passages of scripture teach us。
is that waiting in God's eyes is a gift.。
So it's a very different experience。
to how we think about it in the modern context。
and how often we've thought about it。
within our modern religious context,。
that actually waiting is a gift,。
that it enables us to experience something of God's pleasure。
or something of God's character。
that we may not have experienced otherwise,。
causes us to slow down,。
to reevaluate some of the things。
that are going on in our lives,。
to better bring that to the Lord as well,。
to strip away our sense of being God.。
Often seasons of waiting are a way of reducing my thought。
that I can provide fully for myself。
and realigns us to the reality。
that we need something else,。
that we need to trust in God,。
that we need to wait and rely on Him。
to do what we cannot do.。
And we talked last week。
that we're gonna base this whole series,。
this next four or five weeks,。
in this idea of Psalm 27.。
Psalm 27, one of the most beautiful Psalms。
that we have in the book of Psalter,。
a Psalm of King David.。
And right at the end of that, he says,。
"Wait for the Lord."。
He encourages his people,。
"Wait for the Lord, be strong, take heart,。
"and wait for Him."。
And we saw last week that the word wait there。
is the Hebrew word kava.。
And kava means something very interesting.。
It means to bind together, to gather together,。
to look and to expect,。
which is a very different way。
that we think about waiting in our modern context.。
When we think about waiting,。
we predominantly think about it as inactivity.。
Like if I need to wait,。
it means that I'm not doing anything.。
I'm just kind of going, right?。
But in the Hebrew way of thinking,。
waiting is not inactivity or idleness.。
It is an active anticipation of change.。
Remember, we talked about this last week.。
It is an active anticipation of change.。
In other words, waiting is not this kind of like,。
"Oh gosh, I guess I'll just give up。
"and just kind of like do nothing."。
Waiting is like, I'm expecting.。
Oh, I don't know when it's coming.。
And sure, it can be hard and painful。
in the way I wish it was today,。
but it may not be,。
but I'm actively anticipating。
that there is going to be a change.。
That God, who is the same yesterday, today and forever,。
God whose character I can depend on is going to act.。
I hope it's now, but if it's not, and I need to wait,。
then I have an active anticipation that change is coming.。
Therefore, in the Hebrew thinking about waiting,。
waiting is like a prophetic act.。
It's not a,。
it is a, I'm going to live in such a way。
that I am gonna prophetically live into the future。
of what I'm expecting God to do。
rather than the reality of my circumstance today.。
I'm not gonna ignore the fact,。
I'm not gonna downplay the reality that waiting is hard,。
but I'm gonna have an active anticipation。
of change in my spirit and a prophetic hope。
in the way in which, I almost fell over there,。
and a prophetic hope in the way。
in which I'm going to live my life, amen?。
So that's what we were kind of digging into last week.。
And we talked about the fact that Psalm 27。
has these four stanzas in it.。
It's a poem of four blocks,。
and we're gonna take one of those blocks。
over the next four weeks.。
And in each of the blocks, David does this beautiful thing.。
He shows us one of the negative aspects of waiting,。
and then he gives us his antidote to that negative thing。
in all four of these things.。
So as we go through this series over this month,。
you're gonna get a lot of tips and tools。
for those waiting seasons in your life.。
And today we're gonna start。
in the first three verses of Psalm 27.。
So let me read this to us together。
as we take a look at this first negative thing。
and David's hope within it.。
Psalm 27 verses one to three says,。
the Lord is my light and my salvation.。
Whom should I fear?。
The Lord is the stronghold of my life.。
Of whom should I be afraid?。
When evil doers came upon me to devour my flesh,。
when my adversaries and my enemies did,。
they stumbled and they fell.。
If an army encamps against me, my heart will not fear.。
If war rises up against me in spite of this,。
I am confident.。
There's this phenomenon in scripture, in biblical studies,。
you may not have heard of it before.。
It's a phenomenon where sometimes the best way。
to interpret a passage is actually to approach it in reverse.。
So working from the end towards the beginning.。
This is often seen actually in Hebrew poetry.。
Hebrew poetry often has parallel isms to it。
and often the thought develops。
and sometimes what is said at the end。
is the interpretive framework。
for how you to understand the start.。
We even see this in the New Testament.。
Actually the apostle Paul is famous in writing this way。
and in some of his structures,。
what he says at the end is the key。
for understanding what he's been saying。
throughout the whole flow.。
And here we see a great example of this.。
So I'm gonna start in verse three。
and we're gonna work our way back to verse one。
as I unpack for you this negative thing。
that David mentions here,。
which is the idea of fear and anxiety.。
Verse three says this,。
if an army encamps against me, my heart will not fear.。
If war arises against me, in spite of this, I'm confident.。
David starts by saying something quite unique.。
He doesn't say what I would expect him to say.。
He's talking about armies, he's talking about wars,。
he's talking about battles。
and he's talking about the reality。
that so often in those things we fear,。
but he says this, he says,。
when a army encamps around me,。
or another way of interpreting Hebrew here,。
when rumors of war arise against me.。
So David is not speaking about the moment of the battle.。
He's not talking about war actually happening to him.。
He's not talking about like,。
hey, I'm in a battle right now。
and this battle is really hard。
and it's creating some fear in me.。
No, he's actually saying the opposite.。
He's saying, do you wanna know when I really fear?。
Do you wanna know when the enemy has the greatest door。
to get into my life and create fear within me?。
It's not when the battle is actually happening,。
it's the night before the battle.。
He's like, it's when the armies have encamped around me.。
They're camped around me.。
They haven't attacked yet, but they're threatening to.。
Are you with this?。
He's like, when the rumors of war arise against me,。
not the fight itself, but when I hear the rumors of it,。
that's when I can sense that fear begins to arise in me.。
And I think what David is doing here。
is helping us to understand something really important。
about seasons of waiting.。
That so often in seasons of waiting,。
the anticipation of what could happen。
creates more fear in us。
than the eventual reality of what does take place.。
Are you with me?。
This is anxiety.。
It's classic anxiety.。
And this is what happens when we wait.。
When we're waiting for the doctor to get back to us。
about what's going on in us,。
maybe we've got a blood test in there。
or whatever it might be.。
We're waiting for the doctor to get back to us.。
What happens is all this fear rises inside of us。
and we start to spirally think in our minds。
that the worst case scenario is gonna happen.。
And oftentimes, the longer the wait,。
the greater the anxiety.。
Have you noticed that in your life?。
So you're waiting.。
Maybe there's a hard conversation with someone。
that you need to have at work.。
And the longer it takes to have that conversation,。
the worse you think they're going to react.。
Or maybe you're waiting for a spouse。
or you've been praying for a long time。
for a new special relationship in your life,。
but the longer the wait goes,。
the more you begin to think。
it's never going to happen to you.。
David's saying, "It's when the armies are encamped around me。
"that I have anxiety。
"because I often fear the worst case scenario.。
"And so often, that is the thing that grips my heart."。
And the reality is, in seasons of waiting。
in all of our lives,。
this is the first thing that the enemy brings against us.。
I talked last week about the four emotional states。
of waiting, confusion, anxiety, hopelessness, self-pity.。
We're looking at this particular position。
of anxiety here this morning.。
This anxiety gets in us。
because we're beginning to extrapolate。
the worst case scenario。
because the waiting is going on.。
And that's what David is trying to describe here.。
And he's saying, "I know that kind of pain.。
"I know that kind of anxiety.。
"I've kind of felt this kind of anxiety."。
The reality of the wait.。
And what I think David is saying is this,。
"Before you fight a battle in the flesh,。
"you're going to need to first fight a battle in your mind."。
Come on, church.。
Like before you actually have to。
maybe do that hard conversation。
or before you actually do get the results from the doctor,。
whichever way it might go,。
the first battle is always the battle of the mind.。
And when you're in seasons of waiting,。
it is your mind that the enemy is going to grab ahold of.。
And David's like, "You got to understand this."。
But then he says, "There are two ways。
"that you beat the battle of the mind."。
So if this is connecting with you,。
and you're like, "I know what it is。
"to have this battle going on in here.。
"That so often I have the worst case scenario."。
And you know what?。
So often that doesn't happen,。
but man, the anxiety and the fear and the stress of it all。
because of what's been going around him.。
If you know what it is to have a battle of the mind,。
David says there are two primary ways。
to beat the battle of the mind.。
The first is found in verse two.。
He says, "When evil doers came upon me to devour my flesh,。
"my adversaries and my enemies,。
"they stumbled and they fell."。
In some modern translations,。
the NIV that I often read from,。
this is actually in the present tense,。
but if you read it in the Hebrew, it's in the past tense,。
and that's really important.。
Because what actually David is communicating here is,。
here's the first way that you begin to win。
the battle of mind when it comes to anxiety and fear.。
He's like, "Sometimes we can't avoid the reality。
"that anxiety and fear will come to us."。
'Cause so often they're the first emotion。
that arises in us, right?。
But he's saying, you wanna know how you beat that?。
You wanna know how you begin to process it in a healthy way?。
How you begin to get over that fear and that anxiety?。
He says, "There have been times before,。
"when the enemies have encircled me.。
"Oh, there have been times before。
"when my adversaries have attacked me,。
"but they stumbled and fell.。
"In the past, they were defeated.。
"In the past, they did not win."。
And I need, David is saying to himself,。
"I need to remember today."。
'Cause this is a battle of the mind.。
So I need to get my mind to think on something。
other than the fear of what I think is going to happen.。
And one of the ways that I overcome it is I go,。
"Hang on, I've been in this situation before.。
"And the Lord stood by me last time.。
"That the Lord equipped me and strengthened me and helped me.。
"And I saw before my enemies fall.。
"And what he's done before, I believe he can do it again."。
Didn't we just sing that song?。
Didn't we all go, "Woo-hoo, God's gonna do it again."。
But so often, we struggle with this and anxiety remains.。
And I love the fact that David is like,。
"The first thing we grab a hold of。
"is a reality that we must remember.。
"But I want you to know this.。
"One of the most destructive things about fear。
"is that it creates forgetfulness."。
I'm gonna say that again.。
Some of you need to write that down.。
That's a fridge magnet going on your fridge.。
Sometimes one of the most destructive things about fear。
is that it causes or creates forgetfulness.。
And because fear is present to us and right in front of us,。
and we're seeing all these things that are happening,。
we begin to forget what God has done before.。
We begin to forget that his promises。
have stood with us in the past.。
We begin to forget the battles that he fought for us。
and that he won before.。
And fear causes us to forget God's before。
so that we don't think we have him in the now.。
One of the enemy's greatest strategies。
against the church is spiritual amnesia.。
Come on, church.。
Spiritual amnesia.。
That we forget that God has been good.。
Which is why it was great a moment ago。
for us to hear from one another that God is still at work.。
That God is active.。
That he is doing something.。
This idea of causing and calling the church。
to remember the things that God has done。
is a consistent thread in scripture.。
I wanna just give you a quick New Testament example。
from Peter writing to his church.。
His church, in a season of great anxiety,。
they were believing that Jesus was gonna return soon.。
So Jesus has gone to the cross.。
He's raised from the dead.。
He's then met them.。
He's ascended.。
Before he met them, he said, "I will be returning to you."。
And so they have this idea。
that Jesus is gonna return soon,。
but he hasn't come back yet,。
and their lives are difficult and tough.。
And they realize if Jesus could come back,。
everything in my life is gonna be better.。
And the wait for Jesus to return。
is creating anxiety in the church.。
And Peter writes these words in 2 Peter 3.。
He says, "Dear friends,。
this is now my second letter to you.。
I have written both of them as reminders。
to stimulate you to wholesome thinking."。
Isn't that beautiful?。
"I want you to recall the words spoken in the past。
by the holy prophets and the command given。
by our Lord and Savior through the apostles."。
Verse 80 says, "But do not forget this one thing,。
dear friends, with the Lord a day is like a thousand years,。
and a thousand years are like a day."。
A great thing when we're thinking about waiting.。
But notice the three things he says here.。
And he goes, "I don't want you to forget.。
I want you to recall.。
I write this as a reminder."。
In other words, we often do forget.。
We often do forget what God has done in the past.。
And when we forget what he's done in the past,。
we often struggle to think that he can act now.。
If you are in a season of waiting。
and you know that anxiety and fear is part of that season,。
one of the greatest and most powerful tools。
God has given you is your ability。
to remember his goodness in the past。
and see that as a deposit to his faithfulness。
for you in the future.。
It's one of the most powerful tools you will have。
to overcome anxiety and fear in your life,。
particularly in seasons of waiting.。
So the first thing he says is you need to remember.。
And if you've forgotten,。
it's because fear probably has caused you to forget.。
Go back, remember, and hold on as deposit。
to God's faithfulness in the here and now.。
But there's another one.。
That's the first one.。
Here's the second one found in verse one.。
It says, "The Lord is my light and my salvation.。
Whom should I fear?。
The Lord is the stronghold of my life.。
Of whom shall I be afraid?"。
It's really quite beautiful what David does.。
When you see this in the Hebrew,。
he starts the poem with the first Hebrew word, obviously,。
but the first word is this word Lord.。
It's in capital letters when you read it。
in our English translations.。
It's the name of God that is personal。
to the people of Israel.。
It's Yahweh as we come to understand it.。
And it literally means I am that I am,。
or more regularly thought of。
within the Jewish community at the time.。
Just this idea of God being the I am God.。
Now, it's interesting because King David。
could have chosen other names for God at the start.。
The other one that was very popular。
and used at the time was Elohim,。
which also means God for the Jewish people.。
But Yahweh, the Lord, was their personal expression。
of who God was.。
Going back, of course, to Moses at the burning bush。
where he meets with this God for the first time,。
and he asks this God, "What's your name?"。
And God replies, "I am that I am."。
He gives the sacred name of the Jewish people.。
Now, the Jewish people cannot say that name,。
but they know that that name,。
'cause that's part of the reverence of it,。
but they know that that name means I am.。
So I want you to notice something really interesting。
that David does here in this Psalm.。
He starts by saying, "God is for us and for me。
"the I am God."。
Which is interesting 'cause he's told us in verse two。
that one of the ways that you do the battle of the mind。
and one of the ways that you help process anxiety。
and fear in your life in seasons of waiting。
is by remembering what God has done in the past.。
But he starts by saying, "We don't worship,"。
come on, church, "a God fully in the past."。
He's like, "We gotta understand that the God。
"who has revealed himself to us is the great I am.。
"He's not actually the I was."。
Are you with me?。
Which is amazing 'cause David is trying。
to broaden our thinking.。
He's saying, "Yes, we need to look at God in the past,"。
but he's like, "I'm gonna start this by telling you this.。
"He is my God in the present, in the waits.。
"He is still the same.。
"He declares himself as I am.。
"He is not I was good, he's saying I am good.。
"He's not saying I was present,。
"he's saying I am present right here and right now."。
So he makes this declaration right at the start。
that God is here.。
And some of us need to recognize。
that in order to win the battle of the mind,。
yes, 100%, we need to remember。
what God's faithfulness was in the past。
and hold onto that in the present.。
But we have to be really careful in seasons of waiting。
that we don't end up worshiping an I was God.。
Come on, all right?。
That we don't end up worshiping an I was God,。
that we worship an I am God in the here and now.。
That the one who did something amazing for me。
is the one who's present in this moment here.。
Even though it feels like he's distant,。
even if I haven't received the word,。
even if the promise hasn't come through,。
even if I'm still waiting,。
I declare not that I worship an I was God。
of some time in my past,。
as grateful as I am that God did that work then.。
And as much as I believe it's a deposit in faith。
for what's happening now,。
I need to declare that God is here in the wait.。
So David begins with the I am God.。
And then he says, notice this,。
"The Lord, the I am, is my light and my salvation.。
Whom should I fear?。
The Lord is the stronghold of my life."。
I love this.。
David gets personal right at the start.。
This is really important because。
what David's trying to do for his people。
is not teach doctrine to them.。
He's not trying to say,。
"Guys, here are some things you need to believe about God,。
whether you have this relationship with him or not."。
Instead, he's saying, Israel, who he's writing this psalm to,。
he's saying, "I want you to understand。
that the great I am is my God.。
He's my God.。
And I have experienced some things about him。
that I need to declare to you,。
like the testimonies that we declared to one another earlier.。
He is my light," he says.。
"He is my salvation.。
He is my stronghold.。
He's the stronghold of my life.。
This has happened to me personally,。
and I felt it, and I see him at work in me."。
He's like, "I'm not standing here and saying,。
'Yahweh is the light,'" which is true.。
He doesn't say, "Yahweh is the salvation," which is true.。
He doesn't even say,。
"Yahweh is the stronghold of all of our lives."。
He says, "No, he's my light.。
He's my salvation.。
He's my stronghold."。
In other words, I have experienced him。
at work before and at work now doing these things.。
And many of us here, that's important,。
that the invitation of a season of waiting。
is an invitation into deeper personal connection with him.。
It's not the light, it's my light.。
It's not the salvation.。
It's like, I know that salvation.。
I felt that salvation.。
I am feeling that salvation.。
And I'm gonna declare the I am,。
not simply the I was.。
And what is he declaring?。
Notice, light, salvation, stronghold.。
These three things that David mentions,。
I think are so beautiful because you can almost sense。
David's very personal sharing with his people.。
He's talking about anxiety and fear.。
He's talking about the reality of fear in the waiting.。
And he says, "I've found a God,。
and I have a relationship with a God。
who is light and salvation and a stronghold。
in times of waiting where fear and anxiety are present."。
All three of these things that he mentions here。
speak immediately in the opposite。
to what fear and anxiety are trying to do.。
See, fear and anxiety is always gonna try。
and keep you in the darkness.。
It's always gonna cause you to retreat.。
It's always going to put a shadow。
over your hopes and expectations.。
Fear and anxiety's primary purpose。
is to keep you in the dark.。
So it's not a surprise that David says, "He is my light."。
"I know what it is to have seasons of darkness,"。
I think David is saying,。
"but I wanna declare before you all。
that he is the one who has shone a light in that darkness."。
And if you've ever struggled with fear or anxiety,。
you'll know what it is to sense that creeping。
sort of sense of depression that it brings alongside of it.。
That darkness, the sadness, the heaviness,。
that I wanna just retreat into my bedroom。
and put myself under my covers。
and just kind of hope the day goes away.。
Anxiety and fear will drive you into the shadows.。
He is, David says, "My light."。
He then says salvation,。
which when we read that in our modern context,。
it's so funny, we often will read that。
in a New Testament context.。
When we think of salvation, we immediately go to the cross。
and forgiveness of sin and Jesus's power。
and then his resurrection.。
That's what the word salvation rises for us,。
but we gotta remember that David is using this。
in a very different time and in a very different season.。
The word in Hebrew means rescuer or deliverer.。
And one of the things that fear and anxiety does to us。
is it binds us in chains.。
It binds our thinking.。
It binds our view of the world.。
It binds and chains us away from hope,。
from energy, from wanting to do more.。
Fear and anxiety causes us to retreat, yes,。
but it then shackles us in that place of retreat.。
And David says, "I know a God who has met me。
"in fear and anxiety in seasons of waiting on my life,。
"and he has broken the chains.。
"He has been my rescuer, my deliverer,。
"the salvation from the things that were bound upon me."。
And then I love this last one.。
He says, "He's the stronghold of my life."。
The word here literally means he is my fortress.。
It's a military term, which is really fascinating.。
He starts, verse one, "He's my fortress."。
He's like, what it was in the military。
was that often either your soldiers。
would surround you with their shields。
and create a fortress by which you would be protected,。
whether from arrows, whether from attacks,。
or literally they would create a building,。
a structure of high walls,。
and they would hide behind that。
and be safe in that dwelling place,。
being safe in that fortress.。
So it's fascinating.。
He takes this military term, he applies it to the I am,。
and he says, "I want you to know。
"that I have experienced personally God surrounding me."。
Now remember, he then goes on in verse three。
to say, "My enemies surround me."。
But he's like, you gotta remember,。
yes, my enemies surround me,。
but there's someone who's surrounding me before that.。
He's like, "I am encamped by the Holy Spirit.。
"I am encamped by the great I am.。
"I am, I know that He is the stronghold,。
"the one who surrounds and upholds me,"。
as we sing in that beautiful song。
that Promise and the team wrote,。
"As He surrounds and He upholds me,。
"yes, my enemies might surround me,。
"but they can't get to me。
"'cause I'm surrounded by Yahweh, by the great I am."。
And Christians who move with the blood of Jesus upon us。
and the salvation of Christ purchased。
by that work on the cross,。
we are surrounded by the forgiveness and grace and mercy。
of the power of the blood,。
that the same spirit that raised Jesus from the dead。
is now in me.。
So David says, "I know what it is to fear and have anxiety.。
"Remember the past, remember what God has done。
"and hold onto that and don't let fear cause forgetfulness。
"and spiritual amnesia in you.。
"But don't worship a God of the past.。
"He's a God of the here and now.。
"He is the great I am and I know His light.。
"I know His deliverance.。
"I know that He's a stronghold,。
"more powerful than the encamping around me。
"that my enemies could ever do.。
"So in my seasons of weight," he says,。
"whom shall I fear?。
"Of whom should I be afraid?。
"I am still confident," he says,。
"even when my enemies surround me."。
It's very personal for David.。
This psalm is very personal for me.。
I've shared with you before that one of the things。
that I struggle with is anxiety in my life.。
And this has been something that's been a battle。
for most of my adult life, so for the last 30 years.。
It's something that's in my family.。
It's a hereditary thing to some degree.。
My great-grandfather had it, my grandfather had it,。
my father had it, me and my siblings struggle with it.。
Anxiety is a very real thing for us.。
In fact, just over the last few months,。
my anxiety flares up in seasons,。
often in seasons of waiting.。
I'm in a season of waiting for something that,。
I don't wanna talk about it to you all today,。
but I'm in a season of waiting for something。
and I've really struggled with anxiety。
in the last couple of months.。
I remember just a few weeks ago,。
lying in bed late at night, not being able to sleep,。
and praying, and really praying.。
It's probably easy to think that a pastor。
is like a direct line to God, we don't.。
I wish that was the case all the time, but it's not.。
But I was praying in bed late at night, not sleeping,。
struggling with some insomnia 'cause of my anxiety。
in this season of waiting.。
And long before we were studying this passage,。
I felt like the Lord's saying, "I'm your light, Andrew.。
"I'm your salvation, your rescuer.。
"I am your deliverer, I am your stronghold."。
And I remember being flooded with peace.。
And the anxiety has continued at times,。
and the peace has continued alongside of it.。
And I can stand before you today and say,。
"The great I am is my light.。
"He is my salvation.。
"He is my stronghold in my life."。
And I'm still waiting for the thing that I'm praying about,。
and believing, and hoping for,。
and I'm finding it anxious to be in the wait.。
But I will remember a God who has done great things。
for me in the past, and I will stand。
on the great I am today, and I will have confidence in this,。
that I will see the goodness of the Lord。
in the land of the living, amen?。
- Amen. - Amen.。
(congregation applauding)。
I wonder whether you could stand with me,。
and I would love to pray for us.。
And maybe you'd be happy just to put yourself。
in a posture of receiving.。
The Holy Spirit is present with us。
so beautifully this morning.。
And He is here to meet you.。
And perhaps this has really been resonating with you.。
You know that journey of anxiety and fear。
within the waiting for yourself.。
Maybe it's not every day, but you know。
that there are moments where that's been there.。
Maybe for some of you, it's a present reality。
right here and now.。
Father, I pray for every person here。
that we stand together as a community of faith。
on behalf of ourselves personally, but also one another.。
And Lord, where fear and anxiety has created forgetfulness,。
Father, we pray right now for each person here。
that they would see again, remember again, hear again.。
So I'm praying, I just sense that the Spirit is saying。
that some of you are listening more to the wait。
than you are to the Word.。
(soft music)。
Father, for those of us who where it's easy。
for us to forget your Word in the loudness of the wait,。
Lord, would you help us release our spiritual amnesia?。
Would we celebrate what you have done before。
and believe that you will do it again?。
And Lord, for every one of us, you are the great I am.。
We don't worship a God of the past,。
we worship a God of the present.。
So Father, I wanna pray for light to shine in。
to any darkness where fear and anxiety has taken hold.。
Father, I wanna pray for deliverance and rescue。
for anyone who feels that they're bound in chains by fear.。
And Father, we pray for a surrounding。
and an upholding by you,。
greater than the sense of our enemies around us.。
And maybe for some of you, that's the reality right now,。
you are in a difficult season。
and it feels like things have surrounded you,。
that feel overwhelming and difficult.。
The Lord wants you to know that He surrounds you,。
closer than your enemies surround you,。
and He will deliver you.。
In the here and now,。
He's a good, good Father, loves you deeply.。
So I wanna invite you just to receive。
what ministry He has for you.。
And then in a moment,。
we're gonna call you guys forward for prayer.。
So anyone that would like prayer today,。
as we normally do as we draw our services to a close,。
we're gonna invite you to receive prayer.。
So I want you, first of all,。
to receive what the Spirit has for you。
as we worship corporately.。
And then for some of you, you may want to just receive。
what the Spirit has for you individually。
as we pray for one another in a moment.。
But let's join Him in worship first.。
