I'll just now say it again,。
everybody needs you, a friend like Justin Ho, seriously.。
Love you, brother.。
Well, I also want to start just this morning。
by honoring my friends and colleagues。
who have shared from the pulpit over the past four months,。
especially in this series over the past five, six weeks.。
It's been amazing, it's been so refreshing。
to hear different voices unpack certain topics。
of the Bible and just the talent。
and the depth of the relationship。
that our pastors have in this church。
and in order to faithfully bring the word to you.。
I'm really honored to work with such a great。
and amazing team and we're really glad,。
of course, to have Andrew back as well.。
And so, so today, you know,。
we are closing out our forgiveness series。
and it's been a great journey,。
but even though today, you know,。
it's the end of the sermon series,。
it's by no means the end of our journey in forgiveness.。
And the message I'm bringing today,。
excuse me, it's been sitting in my heart。
for, you know, some weeks now。
and I've been wrestling with it,。
I've been fasting and praying for it,。
which I don't always do.。
Just confession, right?。
I don't always do, leading up to a sermon,。
but this one, I have been.。
And so before we start, I hope we can pray again, right?。
And you to pray for me too。
as we open up scripture together.。
So let's pray, church.。
Jesus, just thank you for your word, Lord,。
the depth and the richness。
and the conviction that comes from it.。
Help us to listen well,。
to draw in well to your word today, Jesus,。
as we open up scripture as a family, Lord.。
Be with us in Jesus' name we pray, amen.。
Okay, good morning.。
Good morning if you're joining us online。
and overflow as well.。
Let me ask you a question first.。
What is the worst date that you've ever been on?。
Okay, the worst date.。
Okay, maybe some of you are on a date right now。
and you're about to say,。
I was thinking I was gonna brunch today,。
but this person brought me to church instead, right?。
It's a pretty terrible date right now, okay?。
I hope it won't be, all right?。
Let me share one of my experiences with you, okay?。
This is like 20 plus years ago now, okay?。
I was a new university student in London.。
You know, a new uni student in a new city,。
I'm trying to get to know people, right?。
It's a part of the journey.。
And so I sign up for psychology classes.。
Now, the only reason I signed up for psychology。
was because the rumor was, word on the street。
was that lots of girls did psychology, okay?。
I was 18, 19 years old, okay?。
Don't judge me.。
Some of you come here 'cause there's a lot of girls here.。
Right, so.。
I'm just saying, okay?。
I don't remember a single thing I learned, okay?。
But there was this girl that sat next to me, okay?。
And she was nice, okay?。
She was nice.。
And so I thought to myself, okay,。
let me ask her out for lunch.。
And so we get chatting, and after a few weeks。
of sitting next to each other, I ask her,。
would you like to join me for lunch tomorrow?。
I said, sure.。
Okay, so far, so good.。
She said, all right, let's go to Wagamama's for lunch.。
Okay, and she agrees.。
Okay, now, for those of you who don't know,。
Wagamama's is a fusion restaurant, okay?。
They take Japanese food and make it terrible.。
Okay, that's what they do, okay?。
[audience laughing]。
Londoners do not like Wagamama's, right?。
I loved it, though, okay?。
You'll see why in a minute.。
Okay, so, you know, lunch date comes along.。
We're eating, conversing.。
Oh, you're from Hong Kong, you're in it?。
Oh, yeah, that's really cool, you know?。
And, you know, chatting along, you know?。
Weather's been a bit rubbish, right?。
British, typical British conversation, okay?。
Having a good time.。
Then come times to pay the bill.。
Now, of course, being the gentleman that I am, right,。
the one who initiated the date,。
I thought it was only appropriate。
that I would, you know, take the bill.。
But it was also because I had a secret weapon.。
You see, I had coupons, okay?。
[audience laughing]。
So, a few weeks before this, right,。
I found on a website that Wagamama's was offering。
buy one, get one free lunches, okay?。
And so I went to the library,。
and I must have printed out like 25 of these coupons, right?。
I cut them all up, okay, and I had them ready, okay?。
I was ready.。
And so, you know, the bill came,。
and I said, I got this, all right?。
And she was pretty impressed, you know,。
and said, I have a coupon.。
It's buy one, get one free, right?。
And I pull out my stack of coupons, you know,。
it's like, and her face, though, right?。
I thought she was thinking, oh my gosh,。
look at this handsome, frugal Chinese man, right?。
[audience laughing]。
Boyfriend material, okay?。
But the look on her face was like shock。
and maybe a little bit of disgust, okay?。
Like, she didn't say it out loud,。
but I knew what she was thinking.。
It's like, wow, this dude is cheap, okay?。
[audience laughing]。
This cheap man, he took me to Wagamama's。
'cause he had two for one coupons, okay?。
So, needless to say, there was no second date,。
but I did keep eating at Wagamama's,。
and it was so good, okay?。
So, I was a poor student.。
And I wish I could say I've changed since then,。
but I'm still kind of cheap, okay?。
For example, okay, my first wedding anniversary,。
my wife is sitting here right now.。
We're celebrating our 15th wedding anniversary,。
by the way, this December, okay?。
So.。
[audience applauding]。
Praise the Lord, okay?。
If you wanna know if God is real, this is proof, okay?。
Like, my first wedding anniversary, okay,。
I have been saving up coins, okay?。
All the loose change I get every day, I throw it in a pot,。
okay, so I saved up a whole bunch of coins.。
I was gonna use that to take my wife out for dinner。
on our first wedding anniversary.。
But, okay, I went to the bank and they said,。
oh, if we change this into cash or whatever,。
it's gonna cost you like 2% of the,。
so I didn't wanna do that, 2%, okay?。
So what I did, I took all the coins, okay,。
and I paid for our meal that evening in coins, okay?。
Like, it was like a $1,000 meal, okay?。
Like, in fives and twos and ones, okay?。
Brittany was embarrassed.。
Again, I thought it was great, okay?。
'Cause, you know, I've been saving up these coins。
for something, okay?。
So that's me, okay?。
Now, you'll see why in a minute。
why I shared these stories with you.。
Over the past five weeks, we've been taking a deep dive。
into the topic of forgiveness.。
And I really hope it's been useful.。
I really hope it's given you a good understanding。
of what God's heart is when it comes to forgiveness。
because we've really needed it.。
But I told you guys at the beginning。
that this was a heart cry from the church.。
I wanna show you something this morning.。
This mixing bowl right here, full of these prayer requests,。
these are the prayer requests。
that were taken up during Converse, right?。
Hundreds and hundreds and hundreds.。
There's even more that wouldn't fit into the bowl, okay?。
Hundreds of these prayer requests,。
all on the topic of forgiveness.。
Lord, help me to forgive.。
Lord, I need forgiveness, okay?。
All of them to do with forgiveness.。
And to say that we were wrestling with this。
as a church would be an understatement, right?。
We were deep in the idea of needing。
to understand what forgiveness is,。
writing out our struggles in this.。
But as we were going through the series。
and as we were coming to an end,。
I noticed some pitfalls or some dangers。
in focusing too much just on the topic of forgiveness.。
Because in all this talk about needing to embrace forgiveness。
because it's what God has done for us, right?。
We've began to realize that Jesus has taken away。
all our guilt and our shame.。
He holds nothing against us, which is all true.。
The risk there is that forgiveness。
becomes something we take for granted.。
Our mindset becomes, hey, since it's always there。
and it's free, we can just help ourselves to it,。
then why not, right?。
I'm just gonna live my life how I want,。
do whatever I want, and then just ask for forgiveness later.。
Right, we might even start to take the same mindset。
when it comes to forgiving each other, right?。
We hold forgiveness over each other,。
kind of like a weapon, right?。
We hurt each other, we offend each other,。
but instead of doing the hard work of confessing。
and repenting and changing who we are,。
we develop this mindset of, well, you have to forgive me。
because Pastor Ellison and all those other pastors。
said so in this sermon series, right?。
I can hear it right now.。
Maybe you and your spouse are having an argument.。
You know you've been wrong, you know you've messed up,。
but instead of owning up to the mistakes,。
out comes your mouth.。
You need to forgive me.。
Didn't you listen to the sermon series?。
Okay, listen, if that's what we've walked away with。
at the end of this series,。
then we've caught the wrong end of the stick.。
In other words, if we've come away from this sermon series。
thinking forgiveness, we can access cheaply,。
you know, just like cheap Wagamama coupons。
or just coins that we can bring, okay,。
then we've cheapened forgiveness.。
Forgiveness cannot be something we cheat,。
we treat cheaply because forgiveness was God's idea.。
It was his gift to us.。
Right, we even said at the beginning of the series,。
forgiveness is like a journey, right?。
We're learning how to forgive,。
but even that I think is not totally accurate。
because I've realized that actually,。
you can learn to forgive in a lot of different ways.。
What we heard about some of this throughout the series。
is about some of the benefits of forgiveness, right?。
The world of science and psychology tells us that,。
you know, forgiveness brings us many health benefits, right?。
It lowers your blood pressure,。
live longer lives, lowers your stress and anxiety, right?。
So forgiveness you can embrace。
as a way of looking after yourself, right?。
Buddhism teaches forgiveness, right?。
Buddhism teaches, you know,。
as a forgiveness as a way to reach inner peace, okay?。
So you can get to inner peace just by forgiving.。
Hinduism, right, and forgiveness have to do with karma.。
So the more you forgive, the better your karma is,。
you don't come back as something horrible in the next life,。
okay, eventually leads you。
to the heights of self-realization.。
Even the Quran teaches forgiveness, right?。
Forgiveness is a virtue that Allah values,。
so the more you forgive, the more virtues you store up。
with Allah for treasures in the next life.。
So if you want to learn just to forgive,。
there's lots of ways to do that.。
But the goal is not to become good at forgiving, okay?。
Our goal in life is to become more and more like Jesus.。
That's the ultimate goal.。
Our goal in life is to learn what it means。
to enter through the small and narrow gates.。
Our goal in life is to discover that Jesus is the way,。
the truth, and the life, and no one comes to the Father。
except through him.。
Because it's only when we learn to be like Jesus。
that we can truly live out and practice forgiveness。
as God intended for us to do it.。
Listen carefully again.。
If we've learned how to forgive。
without learning how to be like Jesus,。
then we've missed the point.。
So we're gonna open up Scripture.。
And the passage we're looking at today。
will remind us of the ultimate goal in our lives。
and the challenge to follow it.。
So Matthew chapter 16, verses 24 to 26.。
Familiar words maybe, but let's look at them again together.。
Then Jesus said to his disciples,。
"Whoever wants to be my disciple must deny themselves,。
"take up the cross, and follow me.。
"For whoever wants to save their life will lose it,。
"but whoever loses their life for me will find it.。
"What good will it be for someone to gain the whole world。
"yet forfeit their soul?。
"Or what can anyone give in exchange for their soul?"。
We talk a lot about the benefits of following Jesus,。
and indeed, forgiveness is one of those great benefits.。
Once we accept Jesus as our Lord and Savior,。
we believe our sins are forgiven and that we're justified.。
The basic idea of being justified means。
that because of God's forgiveness over us,。
our sin is not on the record anymore.。
It's been blotted out, it's been erased.。
The debt of sin has been paid on us, for us.。
So that means when God looks at us,。
he doesn't see our sin.。
Instead, he sees one who is clean, who is pure.。
You can think about it this way.。
A justified me almost means it's just as if。
I had never sinned.。
So that's available for us, it's free.。
Well, free for me and you, of course,。
but it wasn't totally free。
because forgiveness came at the great cost of Jesus' life.。
And because it comes at the great cost of his life,。
we cannot treat it cheaply and with content.。
Like I said, if we do this, it's like treating forgiveness。
like things we can just, free coupons we can use。
all the time, okay, and just access whenever we need.。
Yes, forgiveness is free, but it's only free。
because Jesus paid the price we cannot pay for ourselves.。
And even though it is available to all,。
there are certain conditions that God gives us。
in order to properly receive his gifts and benefits.。
The point of forgiveness is not just to comfort you。
when you feel sad, to make you feel better。
when you've done something wrong, right?。
Forgiveness is actually meant to change you,。
to shape you, and mold you, to encourage you。
to become more like his son.。
In other words, if you want to know the full benefits。
of forgiveness, you have to become a discipleship,。
a disciple of Jesus.。
And when it comes to becoming a disciple of Jesus,。
when it comes to following Jesus,。
it comes with change in our lives, real change.。
It comes with a cost to our lives as well.。
But this only makes sense because if not,。
anyone could call themselves a Christian, right?。
Anyone could call themselves a Christian,。
keep living lives however they want,。
receive God's forgiveness, but again,。
that's cheapening the whole idea of God's grace。
and his mercy.。
If we want to call ourselves Christians,。
if we profess to follow Jesus with our lives,。
it's gonna cost us something.。
There are changes that must be made.。
There's a certain way God expects us to live。
as his followers.。
So the question is, what does it cost us to follow Jesus?。
Well, if you go back to the passage,。
we're gonna find out.。
Verse 24, Jesus starts by saying,。
if anyone would come after me.。
Anyone.。
Now, anyone means anyone, okay?。
This means you, this means me,。
this means anyone who's listening right now.。
This is an invitation to all people at all times.。
Anyone can choose to become a disciple of Jesus.。
But notice I used the word choose, right?。
If you want to.。
If also means it's a choice.。
If you want to become a disciple of Jesus,。
these are the things we're gonna have to walk in.。
God's not gonna drag you kicking and screaming。
into a relationship to follow him.。
That's not true following, that's not true discipleship.。
That's not true love.。
He's not gonna do that.。
We all have a choice.。
And Jesus is about to explain, if you want to follow me,。
there are requirements.。
We're about to dive in into something。
that might change the definition。
of what it means for you to follow Jesus.。
And I'm gonna tell you,。
it's more than just coming to Sunday services.。
It's more than just giving an offering, volunteering,。
being part of a community group,。
as amazing and good as those things are。
for the life of a Christian,。
it's gonna be much more than that.。
So the question, maybe the most important question。
you could ever ask yourselves in your life is this.。
Do you want to go after Jesus?。
Do you want to be a disciple of the Lord?。
Because if you say yes,。
it's going to drastically change your life forever.。
If you say yes, we're about to leave,。
we got to lean into some things we need to do。
in order to follow him.。
Firstly, it teaches us this.。
A disciple of Jesus must deny himself.。
Your first step in deciding to follow Jesus。
is to deny yourself.。
Now, what does this mean?。
It's not just, ooh, I better not have that chocolate.。
Ooh, I better not have that cake,。
moment on the lips, lifetime on the hips.。
It's not just that.。
It's not that kind of deny yourself.。
But what this is talking about, church,。
it's talking about the full and total surrender。
of your life into his hands.。
Okay, think about this for a second, all right?。
Because we live in a day and age, right,。
where the prevailing mindset seems to be。
you can and should have whatever you like。
whenever you like, right?。
The world says take control of your life, right?。
There's this belief out there that teaches us, right,。
we are so much in control that you can truly have。
whatever you want, all you need to do is manifest it, right?。
You heard of that term, manifesting, right?。
The idea, okay, is making everything you want and feel,。
okay, everything you, sorry, let me say it clearly.。
The idea of making everything you want to feel。
and experience a reality through your thoughts,。
your actions, and beliefs.。
In other words, what it's saying is deny yourself nothing,。
but whatever makes you feel good,。
that's what's good for you, so do whatever you want.。
Okay, listen, this sounds good, it sounds attractive,。
do whatever you want, manifest whatever you want,。
deny yourself no pleasure, right?。
Some preachers out there might even say。
this is God's will for your life, right,。
to live a life of constant bliss and blessings。
with no struggles, right?。
This is a lie, church.。
Think about it for a minute.。
If life was about making yourself happy,。
why would we need God?。
Well, if you could just manifest whatever you wanted。
all the time, serve your own needs,。
you wouldn't need God, you would be God yourself.。
So denying yourself is not really about, you know,。
it's about embracing a whole different way to live.。
It's about discovering, actually, your true purpose in life.。
And your purpose in life, our purpose in life, right,。
it's not for you to discover the pleasures of this world.。
Your purpose in life is not to live a happy,。
comfortable life, die peacefully in your sleep.。
Your purpose in life is not to become the best。
at whatever you're doing.。
Your purpose in life is not to find a partner,。
get married, and settle down.。
Your purpose in life is to become a follower of Jesus,。
because you have been made an image bearer of God.。
Your purpose in life is to worship Jesus。
with all your heart, mind, and strength,。
to be an example of his love to others.。
Above everything else, this is your ultimate goal in life.。
And for you to be able to do that,。
you're gonna have to deny yourself.。
You're gonna have to be willing to say,。
everything else is gonna take a back seat,。
and I'm gonna fully dedicate myself。
to becoming more like Jesus.。
And I know it sounds extreme, right?。
It almost sounds as though Jesus is trying。
to kill everybody's personality,。
so we all act in the same way, right?。
It sounds a bit like Jesus is to get rid。
of everything enjoyable in your lives, right,。
and force you to be grumpy and miserable all the time.。
It sounds a little bit like Jesus is saying,。
don't have fun, just follow me.。
But that's not true, either.。
That could be further from the truth.。
Remember the story of the rich young ruler.。
He is the person who encounters,。
and he's actually interested in who Jesus is。
and in giving his life to him.。
But when he is challenged to deny himself。
of a significant wealth and possessions,。
he couldn't do it.。
And he walked away grieved, the Bible tells us,。
even though he still had all the riches。
that he ever wanted, he walked away grieved.。
On the other hand, when Zacchaeus,。
another wealthy man who's interested in following Jesus,。
when he realizes what he has to do,。
he gladly gives everything up.。
He says, I'm gonna pay back four times。
what I stole from other people.。
He gives away all himself, denies himself all of that,。
and Jesus declares that salvation。
has come to his house today.。
The one who was willing to deny himself。
discovered the true meaning of life.。
The one who was not willing to deny himself。
walked away from the giver of life.。
Church, let me remind us today,。
denying yourself, fully surrendering。
to anything Jesus wants you to do,。
this has to be the first step that you must take。
in your life of following Jesus.。
Right, so how do we do it, though?。
How do we do this, rise up to this challenge。
of denying yourself, right?。
It's not just a matter of strong will, right?。
Strong will can lead you to do a lot of crazy things.。
I've done two marathons, okay, with zero training, okay,。
just based on willpower alone, I'm not kidding, okay?。
I did two trail walkers even, no training,。
I just got up that morning,。
decided to go do it with my group, okay,。
went and did it, finished, okay,。
I almost died at the end of all those events, okay?。
Don't recommend it, okay?。
But you know, your willpower, your grit。
will get you certain places,。
but it's not gonna be able to help you in this that much.。
There's an even more drastic step that you have to take.。
And Jesus tells us the next step, then,。
is to, if you want to, come after me,。
deny himself, and pick up your cross.。
Pick up the cross.。
Now, again, the idea of picking up your cross,。
I feel like it's sort of a concept。
that's been cheapened by modern day thinking, right?。
It's sort of a cutesy little phrase that we say sometimes,。
right, I'm gonna pick up my cross,。
and we think of it as something like。
an irritating burden that you need to bear, right?。
Oh, you know, the cross I have to bear,。
my cross is this gout in my big toe, you know,。
acts up all the time, every time I eat, you know,。
spicy noodles, my gout flares up, okay?。
Or my cross to bear is to have to work。
with Dave over here, right?。
I have to see him every day, you know,。
and Dave is such a burden to me, right?。
It's much more than that, though.。
The cross is not just an annoyance.。
The cross was an instrument of death, right?。
And picking up the cross means that we deny ourselves。
to the point where we think of all our earthly passions,。
our sinful desires, as crucified and put to death.。
Taking up the cross not only means to deny yourself,。
it actually means to die to yourself.。
Dietrich Bonhoeffer says it this way,。
when Christ calls a man or a woman,。
he bids him to come and die.。
If we just stop that denying ourselves,。
that stuff is still sort of there, right,。
lingering in the background, you know,。
and the danger is, you know, like a bad habit,。
we always run the risk of going back to it.。
It's familiar, it's warm, right?。
There is a sense of like safety in sin。
as messed up as that is.。
But scripture doesn't call us just to resist sin,。
no, that's just the first step.。
The next step scripture tells us to do。
is put the sin in our old lives to death, right?。
Time and time again, the Bible tells us to do this.。
Check it out, Galatians 5:24,。
"Those who belong to Christ have been crucified。
"with the flesh and its passions and desires."。
Romans 6:11, "In the same way, count yourselves," what?。
"Dead to sin, but alive in God to Christ Jesus."。
Matthew 5, 29 to 30, Jesus talking to us,。
"If your right eye causes you to stumble,。
"gouge it out and throw it away.。
"If your right hand causes you to stumble,。
"cut it off and throw it away."。
2 Corinthians 5, 17, "So if anyone is in Christ,。
"he is a new creation, what is old has passed away.。
"Look, what is new has come."。
Without dying to ourselves, there will always be the risk。
of going back, doing things according to your own agenda.。
Without dying to ourselves, we will want to say no。
when God says yes.。
We will say stop when God says go.。
We'll say I'm not ready when God says go and do this for me.。
And the attachments we have to the things on this earth。
will always try to stop us。
from living a life full with Jesus.。
Now Jesus isn't just trying to make you。
a better version of yourself, right?。
Put some, you know, you put makeup on a pig,。
it's still a pig, you know what I'm saying?。
Okay, he's not just trying to give you。
a better version of yourself.。
What Jesus is offering you is a brand new life.。
And in order to have this brand new life,。
the old life must die.。
This is what it means to be born again.。
This is why we sometimes, when we come to Christ,。
we call us the process to be born again.。
We are buried with him by baptism into death。
in order that just as Christ was raised from the dead。
by the glory of the Father,。
we too might walk in the newness of life.。
Do you resonate with this church?。
Is your desire to know Jesus even in his death。
and going to the cross your number one priority in life?。
Are you willing not just to deny, but to die,。
to throw away your old life。
so that you may know and follow Jesus?。
I know, like I said, it sounds radical,。
it sounds extreme, right?。
Even as I was preparing this, you know,。
it's like, "Oh, chill, you know, it's not that serious."。
But it really is.。
It's not radical.。
This should be the norm for people who want,。
who say they follow Jesus.。
We should be able to stand here like Paul does and say,。
"I resolve to know nothing else。
"except Jesus Christ and him crucified."。
Without dying to our old life,。
we will never embrace the new life offered to us,。
a life where Jesus can finally give us an invitation。
by saying, "Then come and follow me."。
This becomes your only purpose in life.。
Not chasing whatever feels good,。
not satisfying your flesh,。
but our aim after old life has been crucified。
is to wholeheartedly, single-mindedly,。
with every single fiber in our body, follow Jesus.。
This is discipleship.。
This is what it means when we say。
we're trying to grow big people,。
not in ourselves, but in Christ.。
When people have denied their lives to the point of death。
so that they can follow Jesus。
with absolutely nothing holding them back,。
this is the cost.。
This is the people that Jesus is seeking.。
If you really wanna experience God's forgiveness over us,。
then this is what we have to do.。
Deny yourself, pick up the cross, and follow him.。
So let me ask us again,。
do you want to follow Jesus?。
Because if you do, a life with Jesus will mean discipline.。
A life with Jesus will mean denying yourself。
and putting your sin and old life to death.。
Following Jesus, it will mean suffering.。
It will mean the risk of persecution.。
It will mean being misunderstood by people around you.。
It will mean wholehearted obedience to him and him alone.。
It's gonna mean walking by faith and not by sight.。
It means loving your neighbors as you love yourself.。
It's gonna mean even loving your enemies.。
It's gonna mean standing up for justice.。
It means loving those others have deemed as sinners.。
It means sacrificial giving.。
It means looking after the widows and the orphans.。
It means proclaiming the gospel boldly.。
It will mean the world might hate you.。
It's gonna mean going down the narrow, more difficult gate.。
It's gonna mean dropping everything。
like the disciples did at the sound of his voice.。
It will mean putting him above all else.。
It's gonna mean spending time in his word.。
It's gonna mean thinking about things。
that are pure and noble and true.。
It's gonna mean committing yourself to a church,。
the body of Christ, serving the church.。
It will mean forgiving others as Jesus has forgiven you.。
It's gonna mean loving your wife as Christ loved the church.。
It's gonna mean praying for your husband.。
It's gonna mean teaching the children。
the way they should go.。
I could go on and on and on and on,。
but it also means this.。
It also means freedom from sin and darkness.。
It means joy.。
It means being surrounded by a community that loves you.。
It means living a life full of the power。
of the Holy Spirit that goes with you wherever you go.。
It means seeing miracles, signs, and wonders.。
It means being filled with wonder and awe and worship.。
Even when we look up at the sky,。
we realize there's a God who created all this.。
It means a life full of purpose and direction.。
It's gonna mean a life that is not governed by fear,。
but driven by love.。
It's gonna mean a life that's free from shame.。
It's gonna mean enjoying the blessings。
that God chooses to give you.。
It's gonna mean a life of fruit.。
It's gonna mean whole and healthy families.。
It's gonna mean discovering the reason。
why God put you on this earth,。
was to follow him and to worship him.。
It means becoming, it means Jesus becoming the one。
and only significance for your life.。
This, my friends, is the only life that is worth living.。
But it's a choice.。
Like I said in the beginning, this is a choice.。
It's a question of if.。
Which is why Jesus also gives us very clear consequences。
of what life will turn out like。
if we don't choose to follow him,。
if we don't put our hope with him.。
For whoever would save his life, Jesus says, will lose it.。
But whoever loses his life for my sake will find it.。
In other words, what he's saying is,。
the more you try to control your own life,。
the more you live life on your own terms,。
the more you refuse to deal with your sin and darkness。
and hold on to vengeance and retribution,。
the more you try to be your own savior,。
you're gonna lose your life.。
And I was trying to come up with a cutesy story。
and an example for this, but actually,。
at the end of the day, it's just,。
this is one of those things where you have to say,。
if you know, you know.。
And you're not gonna know。
until you actually make that decision to do that.。
Because in the wisdom of this world,。
it doesn't make sense.。
It really doesn't make sense.。
The world tells us to look after yourselves,。
prioritize your needs, make your life comfortable.。
And yes, these things are important.。
Don't get me wrong, this is not a call into self-abuse.。
That's not the point.。
Right, when Jesus calls someone。
to come to a life of following him,。
it's not a call of misery and suffering。
just for the sake of suffering.。
But he does call us to leave everything behind.。
Why?。
Because no one can serve two masters.。
He does say you have to love the Lord your God。
with all your heart, all your soul, and all your mind.。
And we're never gonna be able to do this。
by holding on to our own vision for our lives.。
Yeah, 'cause I know it doesn't make sense.。
But what doesn't make sense。
is actually the way it's supposed to be.。
So let us not be so foolish and be deceived。
to think that the world's way of doing things。
is the right way to do it.。
Right, scripture tells us that it might sound。
like foolishness from the world's perspective,。
but the foolishness of God is wiser than human wisdom.。
1 Corinthians 1:25.。
And this will only make sense。
when Jesus has transformed your mind,。
when your hearts are renewed,。
when we have died and received new life,。
when we see the freedom that comes。
and the fruit that comes with a life。
wholeheartedly devoted to walking with Jesus.。
It's like what the people do in Matthew 13 in this parable.。
The kingdom of heaven following Jesus.。
It's like treasure hidden in a field.。
When a man found it, he hid it again,。
then in his joy went out and sold everything he had。
and bought that field.。
Again, following Jesus is like a merchant。
looking for fine pearls.。
When he had found one of great value,。
he went away, sold everything he had and bought it.。
The only thing, the only way to find out。
what Jesus has in store for you。
is for you to give him everything you've got.。
It will cost you everything.。
There are no half measures in this journey.。
It's sink or swim, but when you give everything you've got。
to Jesus, he promises to give you life。
and life in the full in return.。
Now, how does this relate to forgiveness?。
Well, you see, this is what forgiveness is really for then.。
I think I alluded it at the beginning of the message.。
It's not the get out of jail free card。
that we think gives us permission to do whatever we want。
and God asks God to pardon us, you know,。
do it first, ask forgiveness later.。
Like I said, that's cheapening God's grace.。
But forgiveness becomes this sort of guidance。
and encouragement for those who have made that decision。
to follow Jesus with everything they have.。
Because Jesus knows, God knows in this journey,。
you're gonna mess up.。
Right, we are not perfect people.。
We're on the way to our citizenship in heaven,。
but we're not quite there yet.。
So you're gonna stumble, you're gonna fall,。
you're gonna mess up, you're gonna make mistakes。
along the way.。
But this is where forgiveness comes in.。
This is where God comes along and uses forgiveness。
as an encouragement when you fail and you fall。
to pick you back up when we make those bad choices。
to say it's okay, just keep walking this way,。
keep coming along with me, I have forgiven you.。
If we're dedicated to walking this way with Jesus,。
then forgiveness becomes like a safety net。
that catches us when we fall。
and encourages us along to carry on.。
Without forgiveness, our relationship with Jesus。
would not be possible.。
And so you see all these prayers, church,。
this isn't actually a call for forgiveness, I think.。
All these prayers that we wrote out as a church,。
I see this as a desire, as a heart,。
as a cry to make us more like you, Jesus.。
We wanna be more like you.。
I wanna deal with this junk, I wanna deal with this stuff。
in my life so that I can embrace the true life。
that you've given me, so that I can be free to follow you.。
So let's not cheapen forgiveness, church.。
In order for Jesus to forgive us, it cost him his life.。
So it's only fitting that if we want forgiveness,。
we have to give him our lives.。
This is the kind of people he's looking for.。
So don't wait.。
This is my last encouragement to you, don't wait.。
If you have been reminded that Jesus asks of you today,。
or this is the first time you're making such a decision,。
do it now.。
Right, some of us, I know when we hear a message like this,。
okay, I know, Alison, I know,。
but just I need a bit more time,。
there's certain things I need to deal with first, okay.。
Do this, maybe experience this。
before I give my life to Jesus.。
There's a passage about this.。
Jesus warns us against this, right.。
Those of us who say, I'm gonna take life easy,。
eat, drink, and be merry, and then I'll go on。
and about my business with the Lord.。
Only for God to respond, you fool.。
Tonight, this very night, your life。
will be demanded from you.。
We don't know how much time we have, church.。
Jesus is coming back, you could be called back home today.。
Today, right now, in this moment,。
is the time to make that decision to follow Him,。
to discover the life that He has called you to live,。
the only path that leads to true life.。
So I wonder if you would pray with me, church.。
Like I said, the series on forgiveness ends today,。
but our need for forgiveness will never end。
until we see Jesus face to face.。
So our prayer is that we would be a church,。
a generation that, a body of Christ。
that decides to take Jesus seriously。
at His word, that when we say we're living。
for Jesus and Him alone, we really mean that.。
That we are a church that values the gift。
of forgiveness so, so much, we realize。
what it costs Jesus, that as a church,。
we've decided we're not gonna cheat this cheaply。
and with contempt.。
Instead, I'm gonna embrace it in my life,。
and use it as the way Jesus shapes us。
and molds us to be more like Him.。
And the good news is that we don't do this alone, church.。
And we have the Holy Spirit that guides us,。
that leads us, that walks alongside us,。
that helps us do impossible things,。
things we could never do by our own power.。
The ability to resist sin, to run from temptation,。
to put our old lives to death.。
That is done through the power of the Holy Spirit。
at work in your lives.。
And so Jesus, we come before you now as a church.。
As people making up the body of Christ,。
as your children who you've made in your image, God.。
To say, and if you really wanna say this,。
then I pray that this is your prayer.。
To say, Jesus, I give my life to you.。
I'm willing to walk away, to put to death even,。
everything else in my life,。
in order that I may know you and you first and foremost.。
That I might embrace your purposes and your will。
and your vision and your calling for my life.。
And whatever it costs, Jesus, I'm willing to do this。
because I know this is where the true purpose。
of my life is found.。
So Jesus, help us in this journey.。
Holy Spirit, help us in this journey.。
And help us to encourage each other too.。
This is why you've binded us together.。
This is why the church matters.。
We don't do this alone.。
Yes, we have the Holy Spirit.。
We also have each other to help us along.。
To pray, to be an example, to encourage.。
So Jesus, may we be people who are wholeheartedly,。
all in, fully dedicated to following you,。
no matter what it costs us.。
In Jesus' name I pray, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
