When you hear the word idolatry, what are some of the thoughts that come to your mind?。
Perhaps you think about many gods or random statues。
Things that you might have seen in a family gathering or family homes。
For me whenever I think of the word idolatry, I get the picture of the children of Israel in the desert。
so Exodus。
32 verses 1 to 4 reads。
When the people saw that Moses was so long in coming down from the mountain。
They gathered around Aaron and said come。
Make us gods who will go before us as for this fellow Moses who brought us up out of Egypt。
We don't know what happened to him。
Aaron answered them take off the gold earrings that your wives your sons and your daughters are wearing and bring them to me。
So all the people took off their earrings and brought them to Aaron。
He took what they handed him and made it into an idol cast in the shape of a calf。
Fashioning it with a tool then they said these are your gods。
Israel who brought you up out of Egypt。
So we see in this text that Moses their leader had gone on to the mountain to be with the Lord and in this time。
They go up to Aaron and ask for gods to go before them。
The gold here interestingly enough was part of the provision of God when they were in Egypt。
God had prompted the Egyptians to give them gold as they were leaving。
So they're actually using the provision that God gave them for their future to make an idol。
Something that is not God to worship。
now I think for me this is like the first picture of idolatry that comes into my mind because。
It's a very obvious picture. They're literally worshiping a golden calf。
but。
Personally for me as someone who grew up in England。
It's really really easy for me to remove myself from the sin of idolatry。
I can say well, I don't have a golden statue in my house。
I don't necessarily see statues or worship in my home. So I'm good。
But I know that for a lot of you here that may not necessarily be the case。
You may actually have statues or have seen them at family gatherings。
Somebody's home. You may have a close relative who actually worships an idol, which is sinful。
Now for us for me and you perhaps we don't partake in this type of idolatry。
but unfortunately, it doesn't remove us from the sin of idolatry and。
Here is why。
The first thing about idolatry is that it actually starts in here in our heart。
Despite that we read in the Bible that they made a golden calf. We can imagine them。
dancing around worshiping singing whatever they were doing as。
disobedient as the actual act was。
What led them to that point?。
Started in here。
It was the posture of their heart that led them to make in such an image in the first place and you might ask。
What does that even mean posture of your heart?。
How can your heart lead you to doing such a detestable thing against the Lord?。
Don't we always hear in our culture follow your heart, you know do what's right in here. It's all good。
Isn't it that warm mushy place where people fall in love and all things are great?。
According to the Bible. No。
one of the Old Testament prophets。
Jeremiah actually says the heart is deceitful。
Above all things and beyond cure who can understand it。
the book of Proverbs。
One of the wisdom books that really tells us about how to live in step with the Word of God says above all else。
Guard your heart for everything you do flows from it。
so it's a way of protecting ourselves from sin and。
Then we skip to the New Testament Jesus himself。
Says in Matthew 15 for out of the heart come evil thoughts。
murder。
adultery sexual immorality。
theft false testimony and。
slander。
Now Jesus says this after speaking to the Pharisees and at that time the things that the Pharisees would say。
Would have you believe that they are in step with God?。
Everything they said seemed to be in line with what God was saying。
but as Jesus is God he was able to see to their hearts and he knew that their hearts were dark and。
Very very far from him。
The sin he identifies in here the roots of all of those sins are actually。
started in the heart they start from a heart posture that。
Disregards God and that is far from him and then it's the sin that we see that is birthed from those desires. I。
Believe that the golden calf stemmed from two key places that we're going to talk about。
The first is the culture。
normalized idol worship the culture。
normalized idol worship。
So if we remember back to our series on the life of Joseph in Genesis and。
We see how the children of Israel came to be。
Joseph was in Egypt。
there was a famine in the land and he eventually invited his dad and his brothers and their children to live in Egypt with。
him and。
They were fruitful and they multiplied into the children of Israel and they never went back。
So they stayed there for centuries and centuries。
And so we see that in Egypt they didn't follow the God that we follow today。
They didn't follow Yahweh. So for them worship in many gods。
totally fine totally normal and many theologians have actually argued that。
the calf the golden calf that the Israelites made was。
inspired by one of the gods of the Egyptians。
Number two they did not regard or trust God。
They did not regard or trust God。
I say regard because by this point they had already received the Ten Commandments。
So they knew that they should have no other gods before the Lord. They should not make idols。
They should not worship any idols. They knew all of these things。
They also doubted God when Moses went up onto the mountain. It seemed。
Silent for some time and they didn't know if he was coming back. They didn't wait on the Lord。
They didn't trust in the Lord。
and so this is when they quickly lost the desire to wait on him and。
Decided to make gods of their own making a god that they could physically see。
whenever they pleased a。
God that had no real requirements a God that they didn't need to be held accountable to。
They could worship it when ever they pleased。
A。
God that they could worship whenever they pleased。
They didn't need to be held accountable for anything as it was a God of their own making their own hands。
In their comments about Moses. We hear that God doesn't even feature。
They literally say as for this fellow Moses who brought us up out of Egypt。
We don't know what happened to him。
We see throughout scripture and God makes it very clear that I am the Lord your God。
Who brought you up out of Egypt, but at this point?。
They were not bothered。
so many many gods worshipped in Egypt。
Influenced the Israelites and the fact that they did not trust and they did not regard God。
All of that led them to fashioning a God of their own hands a God of their own making。
Apostle Paul in the New Testament in the book of Romans。
summarizes this sin。
beautifully。
Romans 1 reads。
For although they knew God。
They neither glorified him as God nor gave thanks to him。
But their thinking became futile and their foolish hearts were darkened。
although they claimed to be wise they became fools and。
exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images made to look like a mortal human being and。
birds and animals and reptiles。
So they thought that what they were doing was actually wise。
but we see that it led them to be foolish and。
They fell into deeper sin moving further and further away from God。
Their disregard for God caused them to worship a God that they created with their own hands with their own。
Jewelry for that matter the work of their own hands。
They failed to place God above all things。
they failed to value God as we should a。
Scripture tells us to and when we look through the history and the trajectory of the Israelites。
we see that their existence was very tumultuous and。
lacked a lot of peace。
The images they built for themselves。
eventually amounted to nothing。
Didn't fulfill them。
Didn't protect them couldn't provide security。
Couldn't answer any of their problems or questions。
These are the things that only God can do。
But unfortunately in our society today。
This is still a problem. It's not just something we read about in the Bible。
According to Timothy Keller who was who was a modern-day theologian. He actually passed in。
2023 he defined idolatry as。
Idolatry is treating anything as more important than Jesus Christ。
For your meaning in life your happiness your security your hope and your self-regard. I。
Think I'll read that again。
Idolatry is treating anything as more important than Jesus for your meaning in life your happiness。
your security your hope and your。
self-regard。
so。
when we think about work a。
education a。
business。
I'm pretty sure that idolatry or an idol is like the furthest thought from your mind。
In our modern-day society. We've been taught to earn a living to earn our key to support our family to make。
ends meet。
Genesis 2 in the Bible even speaks about。
cultivating and working so。
How on earth can this be an idol?。
So there's actually a story in Genesis 11。
That sort of gives us a bit of an insight into how work can become an idol。
So Genesis 11 verse 1 to 4。
Genesis 11 1 to 4。
Now the whole world had one language and one common speech as people moved eastward。
They found a plane in China and settled there。
They said to each other come let us make bricks and bake them thoroughly。
They used brick instead of stone and tar for water。
Then they said come let us build a city for ourselves with a tower that reaches to the heavens。
So that we may make a name for ourselves。
Otherwise, we will be scattered over the face of the earth。
now we read that the people wanted to build a city and。
Personally, I never saw the problem with this story。
Over the years I was like, there's nothing wrong with building. They wanted to build a city. They wanted to build a tower。
I never truly understood it until。
recently and。
Why God would go to the effort of scattering their language?。
Stopping them from understanding each other and essentially stopping the job。
But I realized that it's the city itself。
Wasn't the problem we live in Hong Kong. We see it's very built up. I don't think God is upset with us for that。
The issue itself again。
Was in here. It was a heart posture thing。
Their goal in making it was to make a name for themselves。
God didn't feature in it something they could identify themselves with。
Something that others would recognize them for perhaps something so great that it would reach up to heavens to God。
himself。
Knowing that they were mere mortals. There was this。
Desire for them to be like God just like the original sin in the garden。
they were putting their faith in their own abilities and。
Skill and linking their identity to what they could make。
I'll say that again. They were putting their faith in their own abilities and skills and。
Linking their identity to what they could make which in their minds would make them known。
They wanted to prove that they too can create just like God and in making a name for themselves。
God again didn't feature let us so we。
ourselves it was all about them and。
Sadly, this is kind of what our society is like today。
We worship the God of self. It's all about me myself and I。
We just like the Israelites wanted to make a city for themselves a God for themselves。
To fashion and suit their own needs we often do the same。
Similar to the lie the snake told Eve in the garden。
You will become like God are the same whispers the enemy whispered。
To the children of Israel you can make your own gods. You can make gods for yourself。
The same lie he whispered to the people in Babel. You can build a city。
You can make a name for yourself and sometimes there's some of the lies that we hear in our lives today。
Now we may not unless you're in construction be building cities of our own。
But we can often make our jobs what we do an idol。
our title our job our role。
Even like the personas that we put out there of ourselves。
They're the work of our hands。
We we build ourselves up to become something so that we are。
Recognized or seen by other people and most of the time this is outside of God。
We are proud we've built ourselves up from the ground up。
It's our pride and joy and sometimes it makes us who we are。
Without it. We become less accomplished or。
unfulfilled。
It could be a job or a career that you've worked your whole life for。
Years as an undergraduate you might have done a master's a PhD。
You might have trained done work experience。
You've given your all to it and now you've become a doctor, which is great。
But you've now made that the source of your identity and so every single conversation。
You must insert the fact that you are a doctor。
Everybody must know that you are a doctor and those conversations where you fail to mention it you feel like。
Something's missing。
Because people don't know that you are the doctor。
You've attached your identity to a title outside of Christ。
Or maybe maybe it's not even a job. Maybe it's a talent or a gift that you have。
Maybe it's something that。
People think of that thing and they think of you straight away the best cook in the family. Yes, it's her。
every family event。
wedding gatherings。
You're on it. Every meal you make there are compliments flying through the room and it makes you feel pretty amazing。
You feel great about yourself. You are the designated chef and that is your thing and。
Now you've attached your identity and who you are as that instead of in Christ。
Maybe you're the footballer。
You've always been skilled the videos of you as a one-year-old dribbling and doing all sorts of skills。
Your whole life your drive everything about you has been to be the greatest footballer。
There is and you weren't really concerned about any other area of life。
You wanted to be the absolute best and that was you。
But what happens when all of these things start to fall apart?。
What happens when God allows your mini Tower of Babel to be scattered or to fall apart?。
What happens if the doctor?。
loses his license。
Does he still see value in himself?。
What happens if the best cook in the family makes that awful dish that everyone's talking about?。
reputation ruined。
Does she or he feel like an absolute failure?。
What happens to that super mom who everyone goes to for advice?。
Wow, help me with my child and now all of her kids are grown and they've flown out of the nest。
Does she lose her?。
Source or her purpose in life and what happens if that athlete or footballer gets injured?。
And they can't go back to work does their whole life fall apart?。
as a result。
These are all problems that people today face. Maybe some of you have faced things like that as well。
We need to understand that all of these things fall flat。
When we do not build them primarily on the Lord。
All of these things fall flat when we do not build them primarily on the Lord。
when our identity our。
Fulfillment our strengths our source is from anything outside of the Lord God。
We leave the door open for disappointment。
for feelings of meaninglessness and。
Failure if we place anything before God。
We find ourselves having to keep adding and doing more and doing more to satisfy。
Because it's never going to be enough。
outside of God。
There's no satisfaction。
Outside of the will of the Lord and putting him first. You're always gonna need to do more and。
Like the city of Babel they focused on building a name for themselves。
on being known by others and they worship themselves as。
Believers today we should be concerned rather with building our careers and our lives and all。
forms of our lives on Christ。
Which actually lines up with an interesting story that Jesus tells in Matthew 7 about the wise and the foolish man。
So Jesus implores us as believers to build everything。
Including our work on the rock which is a metaphor for Jesus himself。
He is the solid rock and you see that when the storms of life come。
When you have trials when you lose your job all the things happen。
Your peace is intact and you stand firm because you have built everything on Jesus the solid rock。
He also tells us to not be like the foolish man who built on the sand。
Because we know I think we know exactly what happens when you build on the sand。
Imagine t10 with a house built on a sand. It's just not gonna work as it and。
so we as believers need to ensure that Jesus the solid rock is what we are building on and。
When we don't we actually find ourselves in despair。
living lives of frustration and。
Ecclesiastes 5 gives us a great example of this。
Ecclesiastes 5 15 to 17。
everyone comes naked from their mother's womb and。
As everyone comes so they depart。
They take nothing from their toil that they can carry in their hands。
this too is a grievous evil as。
Everyone comes so they depart and what do they gain since they toil for the wind?。
All their days they eat in darkness with great frustration。
affliction and anger。
Now how many of us feel like sometimes we just go through the motions。
Like we go to work we clock in we work。
We clock out we go back home and we repeat over and over and over again. And sometimes you feel like。
There's nothing really there the value of what you're doing is lost. You feel。
Heavy you feel burdened like there's a weight and you're not really sure what to do with it。
sometimes。
It's because you're in the wrong job。
I will say but a huge part of that is when you've not actually built your。
work life your job your career on God a。
Career and a job that leads to frustration and darkness as God is not the center or the motivating factor。
The Bible says toiling in the wind. So you're just working and it's。
Blown away。
We need to build our work life on the only reliable source, which is God。
Now this is a story of how God revealed in in my heart and in my life。
that I was making my job and my career an idol and。
it's also a story of how God restored me back to himself and。
Refocused me to know that he should be the center. So。
Many years ago. I won't say how many。
When I was working in the Middle East as a teacher。
my。
Focus and my goal was to make money。
I wanted to make as much money as possible. I wanted to be debt-free. I wanted to be independent。
I didn't want to have to rely on any man. Love you, babe and。
This was before I met him。
Way before I met him. I didn't have to rely on anyone。
I wanted to help out my family and I want it to be my own source。
I didn't want to have to go to anyone or ask anyone for help。
Which that in and of itself isn't necessarily a bad thing, but I will。
unpack that later。
So I worked all the hours I would stay late and then I would take up extra tutoring on the weekends。
I didn't really need to but I felt like I had to I didn't want to ever。
Go back and see the days of when I was growing up。
Because we didn't really have much and so for me. I wanted to build my own city. I。
Wanted independence. I wanted to be the source and。
For a while. It was fantastic。
It was great. I could go on holiday。
I can get up and do whatever I wanted my family would come to me and ask for help and it felt good。
to be able to give I。
also。
Really enjoyed the compliments that came with it。
I enjoyed the praise of men when my friends or people that I knew would be like wow。
You do you go live your best life? I'd be like, yes. I am living my best life。
I felt good and I sort of reveled in that praise。
I I really enjoyed it. And so I continued to build my city and I very。
very rarely gave thanks to God or even。
Considered him in my job at all。
I was building for my own purpose my own goal for myself that idol of self again and。
God really didn't feature。
But after a while it started to feel。
Empty I started to feel like it wasn't enough. There was something more there was something missing。
And at church there was a mission trip to Thailand and when I went there it hit me like a ton of bricks。
Oh my gosh, there's more to life than making money。
shocker and so when I returned。
there was this shift, but I still didn't really know what to do with it and in that season I felt the Lord call me to。
quit my job and。
move to a different country to go into ministry and。
When I did I will tell you it was the hardest。
Season of my life. I saw what I had built for myself my savings start to。
Deplete my sense of security。
Started to wane my source what I felt I was relying on。
wasn't really there anymore and。
Thankfully God used the life of my pastor and his family to really show me。
How to build on the solid rock。
They didn't need to amass wealth。
They were content with anything they had they knew that their source was from God。
They knew that their identity was in Christ and not in how much they had or what car they drove。
They had true peace and they really didn't have much and I remember looking back。
At when I did have much and I still had anxiety。
Any minute I kept thinking like what if I lose my job or what if my savings just go or what if something happens?。
but they didn't have and they were fine because God was their source and their peace and。
So when I started to actually follow their lead。
I。
Started to feel that exact same piece。
I realized that my search had been so futile and pointless and that actually。
Building my life on Christ was what I needed to do。
Now I am NOT saying it's bad to have money. It is not it's not bad to be wealthy。
Either it's all about our heart posture。
So there's a story in the New Testament again about Jesus and he tells a rich young ruler。
to sell everything that he has and follow him and we see that the rich young ruler was。
Extremely sad and couldn't do it。
Now this doesn't mean that rich people can't be saved because they can and it doesn't mean that success is bad。
But perhaps the money the power that it enabled him to have at the time。
were also an idol or a source for him outside of God and。
For me, it was my safety net. I felt like it was my security。
it was like my blanket and when I put all those things to the side and。
truly trusted God with my finances the peace of God that I gained was。
Crazy, like I can't put it into words。
And so now looking back at the golden calf story。
I can identify many parallels in my own life and maybe you guys can in your own as well。
So not trusting God led to idolatry。
Since they didn't hear from God for a while. They didn't know where Moses was. They weren't really sure what was gonna happen。
They fashioned a God from their own jewelry one on their own terms。
so they didn't have to wonder if God was around because they had made their own I。
Wonder if we do the same in our own desert seasons when we feel like everything's silent。
And we don't necessarily hear from God. Do we also fashion and make our own gods out of our own hands?。
Maybe you're in a season where you're having problems with your boss。
you've prayed and fasted you've said all the prayers you've tried to be kind and show love and。
Nothing is working。
Maybe you feel like you're at the point of getting laid off from your job。
Perhaps people are getting laid off around you and you think maybe I'm next or maybe。
God has placed you in a certain industry or an office and you know that God has put you there。
But you're starting to doubt because God's been silent for a season。
You're not sure if this is what you should be doing or what is gonna happen to you next。
Maybe you're not even sure if God cares about this area of your life。
After all, you're not a pastor or in full-time ministry. So maybe work. Yeah, that's an area that God doesn't care about。
So we start to build and fashion gods of our own hands。
Maybe without praying to God you go and confront angrily your boss。
or you decide to quit the job that you know that God placed you in or you go and seek advice from。
ungodly sources and you start to feel a sense of security and。
That you're in control of your life outside of God。
You start to make like the Israelites God's to go before you。
All outside of God, but the Bible shows us that we become frustrated。
in despair and。
Ultimately fail when we do all these things outside of God。
Or perhaps it's the actual culture that we live in。
maybe。
Idolatry is normal in your workplace, and I don't mean just worshiping a statue。
Maybe your work culture is super fast-paced and you have people around you saying oh, don't worry。
This is just what you have to do to get to the top。
You know that it's against the Word of God against your morals, but don't worry。
Everyone does it no one will know we just change a few things here. We do a little bit here。
Don't worry about it, and you know in your heart that it's not in line with the Word of God。
You start to compromise your morals your integrity to get to the top and to reach your personal goal。
it can be extremely easy for us as humans to get sidetracked and。
Influenced by what happens around us even when we've promised ourselves that we won't。
it's really really easy if many people around you are doing it and。
So it's really important as Christians to regularly。
Check our hearts the posture of our hearts with the Word of God。
So there's a great verse for me in。
Colossians 3 23 that I usually use as like a heart checker and it says whatever you do。
Work heartily as for the Lord and not for men。
Whatever you do work heartily as for the Lord and not for men。
So it always forces me always to ask myself。
Who am I doing this for?。
Is it for God or is it for men when I find myself at school?。
frustrated with all of the teacher admin or sometimes the kids I。
Go to a place where I ask myself. Why am I here?。
And I'm reminded by the Holy Spirit that he's put me here one。
To show his love to these students and to to be a light in my place of work。
Not for a raise though. That would be great。
Not to gain the good graces of my boss for a promotion。
But to be a light to be the believer amongst others。
to work。
Diligently and so when we put that at the forefront of our minds, am I doing this for men?。
Am I doing this for God?。
It really shifts your focus and it helps you to get back into your purpose and what God has for you。
Whenever this happens, there is a shift in my perspective as well。
and I'm able to just do what God has called me to do and。
This isn't just for teachers and it's not just for pastors as well. It's for every single believer。
We are all called to work for the Lord in every area of our lives。
regardless of what our job is。
We are all called to work for the Lord in every area of our lives。
regardless of what our job is。
It applies to builders, flight attendants, freelancers, stay-at-home mums。
Students, applies to students too, police officers, government workers。
Whatever job you can think of you are part of this. Whatever season God has you in。
He wants to be first. He deserves honor。
He deserves praise. It's also a reminder that we are placed in our jobs。
Not to get sucked in to the culture of idolatry like the Israelites。
but to make sure that we are shifting the culture and。
Doing things God's way in partnership with him。
We are making him Lord in all parts of our lives。
including our work。
So I want to ask you guys today。
What is your heart posture?。
What does your day-to-day work look like?。
Do you sometimes feel。
pressure。
To get involved with the culture that is。
obviously。
away from the Word of God。
Do you sometimes feel like。
You don't trust God in the area of work。
Do you sometimes feel like you can't even pray to God about your job?。
Do you sometimes feel like work has taken over your life and。
You can't seem to find your way back to God or to having him at the center。
God is calling us back to a place of repentance and。
realignment with him。
He wants to shift our focus away from the work of our hands and into his work。
He wants to shift our focus to him。
And so let's use this time and。
Speak to the Holy Spirit。
for each and every one of us。
We speak to him and he will start to highlight。
Areas in your life areas in your work where you need to realign and turn back to him。
We're never too far gone. There's always a way to put God back at the center。
And so let's just spend some time with the Holy Spirit。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
