Thank you, Jason. Hey, let's give Jason a hand.。
First time service leading. Come on. That's good.。
Yeah, you got some fans over there.。
Well, when I was dating Chris, who's now my wife,。
so we went on several dates,。
there was a point where I was walking her to the bus stop.。
And so we're walking to the bus stop, and I was like,。
"I'm going to seize this opportunity."。
So I asked her, "Is it okay if I hold your hand?"。
And she, without any hesitation, said, "Yeah, no."。
So I was like, "Oh, I guess I misread this situation here.。
I thought we were on the same page, but apparently we're not."。
And so she went on the bus, she drove off,。
and I had a depressing walk home.。
So I was wondering, you know, how does Chris feel about me?。
Like, does she like me?。
Does she have the same feelings that I have?。
And I was starting to question that. I was starting to worry.。
So luckily that night she called me and she told me,。
"Hey, there's some friends of mine. We want to get together."。
It's like, "Oh, okay. We're getting together. Good. Good."。
You know, there's further plans. It's not over. It's not the end.。
So then the way we defined the relationship, the DTR, right,。
was when she told me, "You can hold my hand now."。
I was like, "Okay." So there we go.。
And I did, by the way, I did ask for permission to share this story。
so I don't just tell stories from our life unless I ask her.。
So there you go.。
But all of this made me think about that there are times。
where we wonder about how others feel about us.。
For me it was in this romantic relationship.。
For some it might be you wonder how our spouse feels about us.。
For others it might be we wonder how our children feel about us.。
I was talking with a father this morning.。
We have both very little children.。
We're like, "Do they realize, how do they feel?"。
Because sometimes they always seem to be turning their head away。
when we come close.。
How do they feel about us?。
So maybe as parents you wonder that.。
Or maybe as a child you're wondering of your parents,。
how your parents feel for you.。
Maybe even as we are older we still wonder。
how do our parents feel about us.。
But then on our spiritual journeys we also ask that question.。
How does God feel about us?。
How can I know how God feels about me, to be more specific?。
And so that's what we're going to explore through this message.。
We're continuing in our sermon series through the parables,。
Living in the Kingdom parables.。
We're in our second week.。
We're looking at how Jesus tells these stories that confront us,。
challenge us, and that a lot of times open up a new way。
for us to look at something or to understand something,。
and where we can align ourselves with his kingdom values.。
We can adopt a kingdom mindset.。
And so we're going to continue to do that today.。
Now we are in the Gospel of Luke.。
I'm going to just give a little bit of a brief summary。
before we go into our passage just to set the context.。
So the context is basically Jesus is hanging out with everyone.。
I mean he is spending time with every type of person.。
He's hanging out with religious people.。
He's hanging out with irreligious people.。
He is with the rich, with the poor.。
But it is the religious who are getting upset。
about what Jesus is doing.。
It's rubbing them the wrong way.。
And so that's the context where we're going to pick up.。
We're in Luke chapter 15 and starting in verse 1,。
and it will be along on the screen so you can read along there.。
It says this, "Now the tax collectors and the sinners。
were all gathering around to hear Jesus.。
But the Pharisees and the teachers of the law muttered,。
'This man welcomes sinners and eats with them.'。
Then Jesus told them this parable,。
'Suppose one of you has a hundred sheep and loses one of them.。
Doesn't he leave the 99 in the open country。
and go after the lost sheep until he finds it?。
And when he finds it, he joyfully puts it on his shoulders。
and goes home.。
Then he calls his friends and neighbors together and says,。
'Rejoice with me! I have found my lost sheep.。
I tell you that in the same way there will be more rejoicing。
in heaven over one sinner who repents。
than over 99 righteous people who do not need to repent.'。
Or suppose a woman has ten silver coins and loses one.。
Doesn't she light a lamp, sweep the house,。
search carefully until she finds it?。
And when she finds it, she calls her friends and neighbors。
together and says, 'Rejoice with me! I have found my lost coin.'。
And in the same way I tell you there is rejoicing。
in the presence of angels of God over one sinner who repents."。
Now before we go into these two parables,。
there's actually a few verses before,。
and I want to say a little bit about that.。
So in verse 1, we're told that the tax collectors,。
the sinners, they're drawing near to Jesus.。
They're gathering around him because they want to hear from him.。
There's just something attractive about Jesus.。
People just want to hear from him.。
They want to be around him.。
He has something to say.。
He speaks different than other people.。
And so people are coming around him.。
And interestingly enough, the Pharisees and the tax collectors。
are also around him even though they have a problem with him.。
And we're told that they muttered.。
Now muttering or grumbling or complaining,。
you can imagine it's like you're doing it in a way,。
you're complaining about someone,。
but you do it in a way that they can hear it.。
It's kind of a little bit under your breath,。
but you make sure that the message is sent.。
And so they're complaining that this man,。
they don't even call him by his name, they call him this man,。
welcomes sinners and eats with them.。
Now what's the fuss all about?。
Why do the Pharisees and the teachers of the law,。
why are they so upset about what Jesus is doing?。
There are several things that we need to understand that I want to unpack.。
So let me do that.。
The first thing is we have to understand who tax collectors were.。
Now tax collectors, so at this time in Israel,。
the Romans were occupying Israel.。
So there's a foreign nation occupying Israel.。
They're collecting taxes, but they don't themselves collect taxes.。
They actually hire Israelites to do the tax collecting.。
And I just found out that Israelites,。
they could purchase the right to do that.。
So you could purchase the right to be the one who collects the taxes.。
And what they did is not only that they collected taxes,。
but they also took something on top of that.。
So not only are they in some sense colluding with the foreign force,。
and a lot of people call them traitors, but they're also thieves.。
They're ripping people off.。
They're taking more money than they're entitled to.。
So in some sense, it's not a surprise that the Pharisees。
are not that excited that Jesus is hanging out with tax collectors.。
So that's the first thing.。
There's a mention that they're sinners.。
Well, in some sense, that seems very self-explanatory, right?。
And it is a general category.。
It could mean your occupation.。
Maybe you're a sex worker.。
It could also mean that you simply do not measure up to the righteousness,。
the standards that the Pharisees had set.。
And by the way, they had like 600 and some laws.。
They went way beyond the biblical demands。
and really placed a burden on a lot of people.。
And if you're not able to keep up with that, you're part of the sinners.。
You're part of the irreligious people.。
But then there's a third factor that we have to understand,。
and that is cultural, and that is table fellowship.。
So Jesus, he's not just spending time with them.。
It actually indicates in the passage that he's inviting people.。
He's hosting people.。
He's hosting tax collectors.。
He's hosting sinners.。
And in that cultural context, if you're inviting somebody to eat with you,。
it means there's friendship, there's association, there's acceptance.。
And that is what really rubs the Pharisees。
and the teachers of the law the wrong way.。
But of course, this is part of Jesus' gospel message,。
his good news message.。
And actually through spending time with broken, with hurting,。
with sinful people, he's actually living out his message.。
Jesus actually reflects his message that forgiveness and life in the kingdom。
are available through him.。
However, the religious leaders, they have a different perspective on that.。
They're like, "We don't want none of that.。
You're spending time with people who show disregard for God,。
and you feel good about hanging out with them.。
So by doing that, you really undermine the social structures。
and what's called good and what's called bad."。
And so they're very upset.。
Now, the problem, of course, is that they can't see that Jesus is God in flesh,。
that he is God's son, and that he is showing God's heart。
for broken, for sinful, for hurting people.。
By associating them, by spending time with them,。
by welcoming them into his kingdom,。
by looking to restore them back to the Father.。
And so in response to this, Jesus tells a parable。
because he wants to reveal God's heart.。
I'm going to do heart.。
He wants to reveal God's heart, the Father's heart.。
He wants to give a window into that。
so that the Pharisees and everyone can see God's heart for people.。
So let's look at the parables.。
So there's a parable about sheep, one that's lost,。
and a parable about coins, where one coin is lost.。
Now, both of those things were valuable,。
but there's an increase in value.。
One out of 100 sheep, and then one out of 10 silver coins,。
and then actually there's another parable that comes afterwards.。
It's one lost son, or probably two lost sons, really.。
And God, Jesus, he invites us by putting ourselves in the shoes of the shepherd,。
by putting ourselves in the shoes of the woman who lost something so valuable to her。
that we can get in touch with God's heart for those who are lost.。
Then we can start feeling what God feels.。
So basically, he's inviting us to put us into God's shoes。
so we can experience some of God's feelings as we imagine that.。
So both parables, they start off with this imaginary thing that we're supposed to imagine.。
So in verse 4, it says, "Suppose one of you has 100 sheep and loses one of them.。
Doesn't he leave the 99 in the open country and go after the lost sheep until he finds it?"。
So, you know, suppose, imagine.。
And then the other one, verse 8, "Or suppose a woman has 10 silver coins and loses one."。
Again, we're asked to imagine.。
Doesn't she light a lamp, sweep the house, and search carefully until she finds it?。
And so Jesus is expecting an affirmative answer.。
Of course the woman's going to go look for the coin.。
Of course I'm going to look for the lost sheep.。
For us, it's maybe like if we lose our diamond engagement ring.。
Of course you're going to go look and search for it.。
You're not just going to let that lay. It's not a big deal.。
I'm just going to not worry.。
But, you know, you're going to look for it because it's valuable to you.。
Because it's something that you treasure.。
Or maybe an iPhone for other people.。
Your new iPhone. You bought it and you lose it.。
You're going to look for it. You want to find it.。
And so Jesus is saying, "If you go search for lost items, lost things, in the way that you do,。
how much more does God search for lost people?。
How much more valuable are they to him?"。
So the first insight that we gain with God's heart is that God actively searches for us。
because every person is precious to him.。
Every single person is precious to him.。
So he treasures you.。
He does not casually look for you a little bit and then says, "Oh, whatever."。
No, he searches for you eagerly, ferociously to find you.。
As we continue to go through the parable, there's another theme that emerges.。
And it's the theme of rejoicing.。
There's just such great joy in finding what's lost.。
I mean, if you found your lost engagement ring or wedding ring, you're full of joy.。
You're excited. You text. You call.。
Maybe you throw a party.。
It's a big deal.。
And so here we also read in verse 5, "And when he finds it," talking about the sheep,。
"he joyfully puts it on his shoulders."。
That really stuck out to me, that the shepherd, he finds the sheep.。
You know, we don't know how far off this sheep is.。
I don't know if you've ever been around sheep.。
They're actually quite heavy.。
Joyfully putting it on your shoulder, smelly, stinky sheep.。
You know?。
But he does it joyfully.。
He joyfully restores the sheep back to the sheepfold.。
And then he calls his friends and neighbors together and says, "Rejoice with me.。
I have found my lost sheep."。
And then there's this comparison to heaven, right, where I tell you that in the same way。
there will be more rejoicing.。
So it's even a greater joy when lost people are found, when they repent of their sins,。
when they receive the forgiveness of Jesus.。
And then the same with the coin.。
You know, she rejoices.。
She asks others to rejoice with her as she finds it.。
And then there is rejoicing, the presence of angels of God over one sinner who repents.。
So Jesus in both parables, he highlights again there's the earthly scene and then there's。
a heavenly scene and there's a comparison like you who rejoice over these lost things。
that you find, how much more does God rejoice over lost people?。
And I think theoretically we affirm that.。
I think there's a lot of theoretical things in our faith.。
But if we're honest, I'm not sure if our life actually always really shows that, that we。
really rejoice over lost people being found, that we really care about people who are wandering,。
who are hurting.。
And then maybe a lot of times we're more like the Pharisees and the teachers of the law。
where we're frustrated with people and we, "Did you hear about those people?"。
And we say things like that.。
But Jesus, he rejoices.。
And through his parable he's saying, "Do you want to know what it feels like to be God?。
Do you want to know how God feels about people?。
Do you want to know how God feels about you?。
Or when one person turns to me, it feels like I just found my most valuable possession."。
Wow.。
It's amazing.。
So the second insight in the God's heart that we gain is that God loves and pursues all。
people and that he rejoices over every person that is found, over every single person.。
But why does Jesus tell us this parable?。
And why does he feel the need to reveal God's heart in these circumstances?。
Well, initially we saw that he's talking to the Pharisees and the tax collectors, and。
he is challenging them to get in touch with God's heart because their heart is not aligned。
with God.。
They think their heart is aligned, but it's not.。
And so there's a challenge to adopt a different perspective, to adopt the heart of God for。
the people around them, to understand what Jesus is doing.。
And because they're opposing the very thing that God is doing through Jesus.。
They're opposing the very thing.。
And they're not in touch with God's heart for the lost.。
And they can't imagine wanting to have anything to do with broken, with hurting, with lost。
people.。
They just want to hang out with their crew, their righteous crew.。
And I think that's another thing for us in the church.。
A lot of times we're just happy to go to our fellowships.。
We're happy to be around people that are wonderful and great.。
But actually, if push comes to shove, and that's why earlier I said that a lot of times。
parts of our faith are theoretical, actually we don't really want to cross those barriers。
that Jesus crosses and spend time with people who just have messy lives, who are not liked。
by society, where we might even get in trouble for associating with them.。
But what I love about Jesus is he doesn't just scold the Pharisees.。
It's actually an invitation for them.。
And so he's inviting us as well.。
You know, to have that same heart that God has for the lost.。
And actually one thing we can do is we can ask the Holy Spirit to fill our hearts with。
love for the lost.。
Because nothing that I say here will change your heart, but it's God's work in your heart.。
It's the Spirit of God's work in your heart that changes your heart.。
And so if you're feeling it, I want to encourage you to just say some prayer.。
Holy Spirit, will you come into my heart and will you give me a heart for those who are lost?。
Will you change my heart?。
Because I can't do it on my own strength.。
Now what's interesting is that the Pharisees and the teachers of the law, actually their。
attitude and their contempt, it shows that there are actually also people who are far。
away from God.。
They also need rescuing.。
They also need to be restored back to the Father.。
They also need compassion from those who know God.。
So even the religious, you know, the self-righteous, God also cares about them and longs for them。
to be restored.。
But one thing that I haven't highlighted in the parable is in verse 3, yes, you know,。
the parable is addressed to the Pharisees and the tax collectors, but actually it is。
also, remember who Jesus is talking to or who's listening to him, it's the tax collectors。
and the sinners.。
So he's also giving a window into God's heart for the tax collectors and the sinners.。
Because they need to also know how God feels about them.。
Because the message they've been getting is, "You do not measure up.。
You don't belong.。
You are awful.。
You have no place here."。
That's the message that they've been sent.。
That's the kind of vibe that the Pharisees sent to the people.。
And so they need to also know God's heart.。
Because usually we know that our lives are messed up.。
We don't need somebody else to usually tell us that.。
You know, we know the things that we've done that are wrong.。
But if the message is that there's no hope for us, then why bother?。
You know, but Jesus is saying there's hope.。
And I want you to know God's heart for you.。
So in strong contrast, Jesus reveals God's heart through these stories。
to those who are rejected, broken, those who are carrying shame and hurt and self-hatred.。
And he's saying, "You're just the kind of person that I want to spend time with。
and that I would want to restore back to the Father."。
Jesus himself said about himself, "For the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost."。
That's why he came.。
This is why he's come, to reveal once and for all God's love for all people.。
Through his life, through his ministry, through his teachings, through his parables,。
through his death, through his resurrection.。
And it's ultimately, you know, on the cross that this question that I earlier raised,。
"How can I know how God feels about me?"。
That that question is answered.。
Because it shows how God feels about you.。
He loves you so much.。
It doesn't matter what you have done.。
That he came to this earth, humbled himself, laid down his life for yours and took your place.。
Observed the punishment, the judgment that you deserved.。
So that you can be forgiven, that you can be set free,。
that you can receive a new life in Jesus.。
So Jesus doesn't just say, "Oh, I love you," or "I tell great parables."。
He puts his words in the actions.。
And he dies for you.。
Now as I was preparing this message,。
you know, the one thing that stuck out to me in both parables was。
how in both parables it's the one that the shepherd and that the woman goes after.。
The one lost sheep and the one coin.。
And the same is true for us.。
God doesn't come after us in a general way.。
And, you know, let me go over, you know, seven billion people in a general way.。
He always goes after the one that is lost.。
It's personal.。
And nothing else would bring him greater joy。
than finding that one lost person and restoring that person back to the Father.。
He wants you to come back home.。
He wants you to know that you are not too far away from him.。
It's not too late.。
God seeks after you even if you've messed it up.。
This is also true for Christians as well because even as Christians on our journey,。
sometimes we just mess it up majorly.。
And we feel like we don't deserve to come back to God.。
He doesn't love us.。
There is no second chance for us.。
But there is.。
It doesn't matter what bad choices you made.。
It doesn't matter what you have done.。
He wants to restore you back to the Father because he loves you.。
And he loves you so deeply and so dearly.。
And his heart breaks for you, for the one, until you are restored back to him.。
Now some of us here, we feel like we are not valuable enough to be sought after.。
There's been also messages in your life that have been sent to you。
that you don't belong, that you shouldn't even come here, there's no hope for you.。
And this reminded me of a story where I was in the Department of Motor Vehicles in California, DMV.。
I was standing in line and there was a person who was experiencing homelessness.。
And he asked me to help him fill out--I was renewing my driver's license。
and he needed a government ID and he asked me if I could help fill him out the form.。
Because life on the streets, drugs and alcohol and sleeping under weather conditions and everything,。
he didn't have the motor skills anymore to fill out forms.。
And so I was filling out the form for him and then got to the point where there was a question。
where he asked, "Do you want to donate your organs?"。
And so I asked him, "Would you like to be an organ donor?"。
He said, "Me? I am junk. Who would want my organs?"。
Now he was a man that had been getting the message that he was junk,。
that he was not worthy, that he did not belong,。
that his life was too messed up to be of any value.。
And at some point in time he just believed it because that's the message that was being sent to him.。
But that's not how Jesus feels about him.。
For Jesus, he is a lost treasure that needs to be restored to him.。
He's not junk. He's made in the image of God.。
And he longs to bring him back to the Father.。
And when he does, there is rejoicing and there's a party and there's a celebration like you have not seen before.。
Because the one who is lost is found and is restored.。
And so you, excuse me,。
you are God's treasure that he loves and that he is seeking to restore.。
Now I want to invite the worship team to come up.。
You are God's treasure that he loves and that he is seeking to restore.。
Now as I was praying for the day, I had a word.。
And the word was that there's a man here that feels like he has messed it up too much to be restored to God,。
to receive his forgiveness, to be made, brought home, to be made whole.。
But as we heard today, you know, you are not too far away.。
And this is true for everyone, you know, for this man, but also for everyone else.。
You know, God loves you and he wants to restore you back to him.。
Now, even if you would be the only single person in this world,。
Jesus would still die for you on the cross.。
He would still lay down his life for you and he would still go after you because you are worth it.。
Because he loves you that much and he wants you to know that.。
And he wants you to be found and he wants you to be part of the family of God.。
He wants you to know God and experience the life that he gives.。
And so what I want to do right now is I want to actually just create an opportunity for you to open your heart。
and to be found and to welcome in Jesus into your heart.。
Now, you can imagine this picture of, you know, your heart having a door。
and there's only a door handle on the inside.。
You know, Jesus doesn't force himself into the door, but he's knocking.。
And it's only you who can welcome him in.。
And he said, "Come into my life.。
Forgive me and give me that new life in you."。
And so I'm going to--the way we do that is by praying a simple prayer.。
It's like saying that we're sorry, we say thank you, and we say please.。
So I want to invite those of you who want to pray this prayer, you can pray this,。
you can quietly make this your own.。
And so let me pray this prayer for us.。
Jesus, thank you so much that you love me so much.。
I'm sorry for all the things that I've done wrong.。
And actually, right now, you can tell Jesus the things that you've done wrong。
and ask him for forgiveness.。
So I'll give a little time for that.。
Thank you, Jesus, that you died for me on the cross。
so that I can be forgiven and that I can be set free.。
I receive your forgiveness now.。
And I place my trust in you.。
Will you come by your Holy Spirit into my heart,。
and will you be with me forever?。
Thank you, Jesus. Amen.。
I want to invite everyone to stand.。
Now, if you've prayed this prayer,。
now you, there's rejoicing in heaven.。
There's a party going on,。
because the one who was lost has been found,。
and is restored to the Father.。
And I just want to encourage you if you pray this prayer,。
just let somebody know.。
Let them celebrate with you.。
Maybe somebody brought you, maybe somebody from the staff.。
We would be so excited for you.。
And we also would love to help you, you know, take those next steps with Jesus.。
But I also would love to pray for us,。
because I feel like even though theoretically we know that Jesus loves us,。
we don't always feel it.。
And we also wonder, does God really love me?。
So perhaps if you're feeling that,。
I want to invite you just to stretch out your hands before you.。
If you're just wondering, or you just want a deeper sense of God's love,。
just as an expression of openness to God, you can stretch out your hands.。
And I would just love to pray over you.。
Jesus, I thank you that you love every single person here,。
and that your love is so deep and so strong for every single one of us.。
Lord, you know everyone's story here right now.。
You know, for those of us who just wonder about that, maybe we doubt your love.。
But I pray that by your Holy Spirit, you will come into our hearts.。
You will flood our hearts with your love.。
You will make your heart, your love known to us.。
How great your love is for us.。
How you have not forgotten us.。
How you are there for us.。
How you are with us every single moment of the day.。
So will you reveal this to us, Lord?。
Because we're struggling sometimes to see it.。
Will you pour out your love into our hearts right now by your Holy Spirit?。
As your word says in Romans 5, 5, you know that you pour your love into us.。
Will you make your love known to us in tangible ways that we have not known before?。
And will you strengthen your people?。
So I pray all that in your name, Jesus.。
Amen.。
Let's worship.。
[Music]。
