So today we will continue our sermon series on the book of James.。
And Pastor Carla will be giving the message today.。
So let's welcome Carla to the stage.。
Hi, Carla.。
Hi, Jennifer.。
How are you doing?。
I'm good.。
Are you ready?。
I am. Are you ready?。
Do you know, Jennifer, this is only Jennifer's second time service leaning in the morning.。
And she's done a great job.。
Yeah.。
Thank you.。
I usually belong to the afternoon.。
Yeah.。
Hey, enough, enough.。
Why don't we stretch our hands and pray for Carla now.。
Jesus, we thank you for Carla.。
We thank you for her family as well.。
We thank you that, yes, she is an amazing leader in our community.。
And we thank you that you have chosen her to really speak to us today through the book of James.。
So, Lord, may your word speak to us, speak to each one of us.。
May you bless Carla as she is preaching your message today.。
And we pray in Jesus name.。
Amen.。
Thank you.。
Hello, church.。
Hello, if you're watching online as well, so pleased that you're joining us.。
It's great that every week we have this contingent that join us online.。
And so I just want to also give a shout out to Michael.。
Michael is part of our community and he is in hospital at the moment.。
And he has been in hospital for a long, long time battling a horrendous disease.。
But he is battling it and he's not doing it alone.。
We as a community continue to pray for you and Heather and Ben and Nathan.。
Isn't it beautiful that as a community, we are able to come together in those special moments and pray.。
That's what being the body of Christ is all about.。
And I love the fact that, you know, Ellison takes a massive chance.。
I mean, really, why if nobody had come forward?。
That would have been okay as well, right?。
Because sometimes, you know, we're battling things and there's no way we're coming out front.。
But really honor the fact that we are a community that are willing to lean in and pray for each other.。
And, you know, we have been looking at the book of James these number of weeks.。
And really that reminds us once again that our faith cannot just be something that is in our mind,。
but it has to be within our action.。
That is all about the book of James.。
James is very clear about that.。
We have to have a radical faith.。
We have to have an obedience to God.。
And it's a challenge.。
And I think, you know, when I read the book of James, sometimes I'm like, "Oh, he's pretty direct.。
He's got some hard words to say to us."。
But, you know, he has an expectation.。
He expects us, if we are going to choose to follow Jesus, he expects us to live differently.。
And as he was talking to his readers, you know, he was calling them out in this.。
So we're looking through at chapter 4 today.。
We're looking through verses 1 to 10.。
And we are going to be encouraged to really submit to God in all areas of our lives,。
but also encouraged to know that, you know, when we fall short of that, which we do,。
that we are reassured that we have incredible grace from God.。
There's this clear instruction from James that you cannot be friends with the world and God.。
But at the same time, there's this beautiful invitation to draw close to God。
and a promise that he draws close to us.。
And we'll know what victory means over things in our life that try to draw us away from God.。
Now, I think we can sometimes read the letter of James and kind of see it as a telling off.。
But rather, I hope through these number of weeks, we actually see just how much God truly loves us。
through the letter of James.。
So let's dive in straight, directly, as ever with James chapter 4.。
What causes fights and quarrels among you?。
Don't they come from the desires that battle within you?。
You desire, but you do not have.。
So you kill.。
You covet, but you cannot get what you want, so you quarrel and fight.。
You do not have because you do not ask God.。
When you ask, you do not receive because you ask with wrong motives,。
that you may spend what you get on your pleasures.。
You adulterous people, don't you know that friendship with the world means enmity against God?。
Therefore, anyone who chooses to be a friend of the world becomes an enemy of God.。
Or do you think Scripture says without reason that he jealously longs for the spirit。
he has caused to dwell in us?。
Ooh, James.。
So let's stop there for a moment to try and understand, okay, what is James saying and why?。
Remember, James is talking to the believers, those that have chosen to follow the way,。
those that have chosen to follow Jesus, and many have been scattered all over Asia Minor and beyond.。
So they're not only facing persecution for their new faith,。
but they were clearly facing some external challenges amongst themselves.。
There's infighting and disagreements driven by a selfish ambition.。
So James was addressing what he saw as an outward expression of inward struggles.。
He refers to the battles within, their motives, and how they were affecting their relationship with God,。
but also with each other.。
And I believe that these outward expressions of an inward struggle are relevant for us today.。
Now, I imagine that the majority of us in this room are Christians, that you chose to follow Jesus.。
But there will be some that maybe are on a journey of discovery,。
maybe in this room or watching online, where you're asking the question, "Who is Jesus?"。
And I want to encourage you that this inward and outward struggle is relevant to you too.。
And I hope that this message will stir something within you。
as you continue to journey in the discovery of knowing who Jesus is.。
So when we make a decision to follow Jesus,。
we are choosing to say goodbye to the old way of life, embrace a different way of living.。
But if we're honest, sometimes that's really hard.。
How often do we find ourselves acting out in ways that align more with the world。
than they do with the values of Jesus?。
And it can sometimes feel like we're being pulled in two different directions.。
That tension James is talking about is related to our relationship with the world。
and our relationship with God.。
Now, when I talk about the world, I'm not talking about the people.。
I'm talking about the systems, the values, the desires that drive our decisions and our actions.。
And as James mentions later in this chapter, we're also talking about spiritual forces,。
those that are working against us and working against God.。
So this idea of being pulled this way and that way is captured really well by the Apostle Paul。
in his letter to the Romans.。
He says this, "I do not understand what I do, but what I want to do, I do not do,。
but what I hate, I do."。
You know, I love that.。
Am I the only one that loves that?。
I mean, I'm so glad that that verse is in the Bible.。
And it was the Apostle Paul who said it.。
Our natural inclination tends to be towards the things of the world that cause and can lead us。
into sin.。
And this idea that we cannot be friends with the world and friends with God is captured。
throughout Scripture.。
You see, the world, its systems, the spiritual forces around us are in opposition to God.。
And Jesus himself taught clearly.。
He said, "No one can serve two masters.。
Either you will hate the one and love the other.。
You'll be devoted to one and despise the other.。
You cannot serve both God and mammon, money and materials."。
And then he said, "If the world hates you, keep in mind that it hated me first.。
If you belonged to the world, it would love you as its own.。
As it is, you do not belong to the world, but I have chosen you out of the world,。
and that is why the world hates you."。
And he prayed, Jesus prayed to his father, and he said, "I have given them," followers。
of Jesus at that time, "and for us now, your word.。
And the world has hated them, for they are not of the world any more than I am of the。
world.。
My prayer is not that you take them out of the world, but that you protect them from。
the evil one.。
They are not of the world, even as I am not of it."。
And John says, "Do not love the world or anything in the world.。
If anyone loves the world, love for the Father is not in them."。
So I think it's pretty clear, right?。
The theologian and scholar N.T. Wright puts it this way, "Christianity is a way of seeing。
the world.。
It is a way of being in the world and a way of acting in the world grounded in the story。
of Jesus."。
So as Christians, our way in the world must be different.。
Talking about our colleagues over yum cha with friends, as believers, we choose not。
to.。
The last elderly person on the bus with no seat, as believers, we give up our seat for。
them.。
Invited to a boys' or girls' weekend away where we know there will be strip bars as part。
of the entertainment, as believers, we choose not to go, or we choose to go but we hold。
strong boundaries while we are away so we do not join activities that do not honor God。
and do not honor others.。
A colleague has a large hospital bill and they're struggling to pay, and you know that.。
As believers, we anonymously give generously because we can.。
Our tax bill is due.。
Yikes!。
As believers, we pay without trying to distort the numbers.。
A colleague is promoted over you, even though you're better qualified, more experienced.。
As believers, we refuse to allow disappointment to take root, cause bitterness, and instead。
we congratulate them.。
And I'm sure you can think of multiple other experiences, examples within your own context.。
When our faith is deep, grounded in Scripture and our relationship with God, we'll find。
ourselves naturally wanting to act differently, different to how the world would act.。
We don't do this simply because we want to be different, because it's our faith that。
grounds us, it's our morals, it's our choices, our actions are different.。
They flow because we've surrendered to Jesus and it is the convicting transformative work。
of the power of the Holy Spirit in our lives.。
When we choose to follow Jesus, we must live differently.。
Let me give you an example of when I first got married.。
For the first few months of being a newlywed, I was really awful.。
Now you don't believe that, do you?。
How could I be awful?。
Like I'm like the nicest person.。
Well, I wasn't.。
I was awful.。
I wasn't treating Richard very well at all.。
And to be honest, I was really struggling because I was used to being very independent。
and suddenly, you know, I had somebody else to think of.。
I was working, Richard was about to go back to study, so he had a little bit more time,。
but I spent most of my time actually hanging out with my work colleagues.。
And to be honest, you wouldn't even really know that I was married.。
When I went home, I was moody, bad-tempered, just not nice to be around.。
It got to the stage where close friends of ours confronted me on this.。
Now, we've been married for 33 years.。
But I still remember when I was confronted, when they said to me about my behavior and。
how I was treating Richard.。
And so I made that decision.。
You know what?。
That's right.。
I chose to then invest more into my relationship with Richard, focusing on my marriage.。
Stop acting as though I was single.。
In a similar way, when we choose to make a decision to follow Jesus, we are making a。
decision not to follow the old ways of our life.。
We want to live differently.。
It's intentional, but it's about surrendering to God and working on our relationship with。
God.。
And I'm sure if you were to ask Richard, he would agree, I'm much nicer to live with now.。
Is that right?。
Yes.。
Give me the thumbs up.。
So why is this so important?。
And why is it so hard sometimes?。
I think first of all, we've really got to grasp how much God loves us.。
Now, we hear this a lot in church, but we really need our revelation of what that actually。
means.。
Because when we actually grasp how much God's love is unconditional, not dependent on what。
you do, but simply because of who God is.。
When you appreciate how James uses language associated with marriage to help us see that,。
when he calls the people adulterous, he does this to emphasize how God sees his relationship。
to his people.。
It's a metaphor we see reflected through scripture.。
It's this marital relationship between God and us.。
And I think we would agree that for a marriage to work, it must be built on mutual trust,。
commitment, loyalty, and love for each other.。
If one partner is not able to do that, when there is a lack of trust, one-sided commitment,。
disloyalty, the marriage breaks down.。
I recently read that the exclusivity of marriage is the essence of marriage.。
And I think that is so true.。
And so God reminds us again and again that he is faithful to us, even when we are not。
faithful to him, but there is a righteous jealousy over us, and he will not accept our。
allegiance, our fidelity, our attachment to other things.。
Exodus tells us, "You shall worship no other God, for the Lord whose name is Jealous is。
a jealous God."。
And the Hebrew for jealous is kanah.。
And throughout scripture, we see God as kanah for his glory, jealous for his glory, kanah。
for his people.。
Why?。
Because of his absolute holiness and love, absolute, and the expectation of exclusive。
worship from his creation.。
He loves you too much.。
He knows what is best for you.。
He knows that if we follow the way of the world, as broken as it is, we will never be。
truly satisfied.。
We will continue to strive endlessly.。
We will continue to try to achieve, driven by ambition, to be successful, to be wealthy,。
to be rich, to be happy, maybe even to do some good, but all on our own strengths.。
Just ask anyone who's achieved great wealth or highly successful or achieved most of their。
goals, have they stopped striving?。
Stopped gaining more?。
Are they satisfied?。
Usually not.。
The world will never give us what we think we need because from the very beginning, Genesis。
1 and 2, we were created to be in perfect relationship with God, with each other, and。
creation.。
And then we all know what happened in Genesis 3, right?。
When sin entered and our world is fractured.。
Because of God's love for us, he'll not accept our friendship.。
He'll not accept our friendship with the value systems of the world because they're in opposition。
to him and they are destructive to us.。
So we're also facing that spiritual oppression.。
We know, again, Scripture talks about powers and principalities that are working against。
God, but they're working against us as well.。
So don't be surprised when you find yourself being pulled in two different directions.。
But we have a way to overcome this internal struggle which changes our external behaviors。
as you choose friendship over God, over friendship with the world.。
The good news and the encouragement to us is that James is very clear on how to do that.。
How we can choose God over the world when in surrender, in humility, and in trust, when。
we come to God, when we recognize and acknowledge who he is and how much we need him, when we。
draw close to him, we'll know his presence.。
We'll know victory in our life over the enemy.。
From verse 6, let's see what James says.。
But he gives us more grace.。
That is why Scripture says, "God opposes the proud but shows favor to the humble."。
Submit yourselves then to God, resist the devil and he will flee from you.。
Come near to God and he will come near to you.。
Wash your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded.。
Grieve, mourn, and wail, change your laughter to mourning and your joy to gloom.。
Humble yourself before the Lord, he will lift you up.。
It will be impossible to choose God without God's grace in our life and the power of the。
Holy Spirit in us.。
But God promises he gives us grace and we'll have his favor when we simply admit we need。
him and turn towards him.。
James makes it very clear, we draw near to God and he draws near to us.。
But don't think that this means God is like over there in the distance and we've got to。
do the work to get to him.。
God actually has never left us.。
He's here right by our side.。
He's been there the whole time.。
The Lord is near to all who call on him, to all who call on him in truth.。
Never will I leave you, never will I forsake you.。
And behold, I am with you always to the end of the age.。
So James is emphasizing this posture of humility that we need to have when we realize we have。
to draw close to God.。
He's there.。
And it's interesting because if you contrast this with the Old Testament, think about Moses.。
When Moses was drawing near to God and God said, "Stop, don't come any closer.。
Take off your sandals, the ground is holy."。
Not the holy priest, the high priest who was the only one that could go into the holy of。
holies to speak on behalf of the people when he went to God.。
The only one.。
And yet we have an intimacy with God now.。
Why?。
Why is it different?。
It's Jesus.。
It's the death and resurrection of Jesus.。
It's his blood that allows us to be in an intimate relationship with our God.。
The God who created heaven and earth.。
Like we heard last week with Andrew, the God who spoke and the world was.。
That's the God that calls us into friendship.。
So in that intimacy, James tells us and his readers that when we have God's presence,。
we also have the power to face every situation and to face those situations where the enemy。
is trying to attack us.。
Resist the devil and he will flee from you.。
Now I know maybe some of us in the room are thinking, "Hmm, how do you resist the devil。
and he will flee?。
What does that actually look like?。
We can't see anything here.。
There's no little minions running around that we can slap.。
So what does it actually mean?。
Let me give you an example of one occasion recently where I resisted the devil and he。
fled.。
I had to think what the grammar for "flew" was then.。
Flew, flew, fled.。
So I was traveling to work on the bus and I overheard a conversation between two people.。
And just so that you're aware, I wasn't eavesdropping.。
You know, they were talking in English.。
They were talking quite loud and I just happened to be sat there minding my own business as。
I'm traveling to work.。
Anyway, they're talking about money and they're discussing it quite openly.。
They're talking about how they were set up for retirement, how much money they were making,。
how they were able to be really smart because they were using -- the money was making them。
money.。
And so I'm sat there listening to them talk about this and I'm not kidding you.。
I mean, I was just happily sat there going to work, not thinking about anything.。
A thought came into my mind out of nowhere, said to me, "You do not have enough.。
You will never have enough.。
You're too late.。
You've wasted your life and you've certainly not been smart.。
You should have done better."。
Now I'm not kidding you.。
Generally I'm not an anxious person.。
Really physically I felt such stress.。
My heart was beating faster.。
I felt a weight on me.。
I felt sad.。
I felt so sad as I began to think, "Oh my goodness.。
I don't have enough.。
Hong Kong's an expensive city.。
What about my future?"。
And then, because I like to take action, I put in my head a plan of action of how I was。
going to deal with this.。
So my action involved, okay, I've got to work out how do I make extra money on the side?。
How does Richard make extra money on the side?。
And what do we need to cut and sort of start saving on in order that we can save a little。
bit more for the future?。
So all of this is going on within my head.。
I'm just sat on the bus, but it's like this, "Foom."。
And as I was just trying to work all this out in my head, I had another very strong。
voice.。
It said to me, "The world's economy is not your economy."。
And then a little bit more gentler voice, "God's economy is different."。
And I knew immediately then that was the Holy Spirit.。
But listen, I had a choice.。
I could have stayed with my train of thought that was spiraling into fear, anxiety, and。
planning action, which I don't think Richard would have been very happy about.。
Or I could have decided, "You know what?。
I am not going to accept this.。
Where did this even come from?。
I was just happy on the bus going to work."。
So I decided that I refused to accept those words.。
I told myself there and then, "I do have enough.。
God has always been faithful and he always will be faithful."。
And immediately, I'm not kidding you, I didn't feel sad.。
I felt physically so much better and just the heaviness just lifted and I just felt,。
"Oh, okay, let's carry on the bus ride then."。
But this is an example of what it means.。
You know, the enemy, he thinks he's so smart.。
He just throws all these little lies at you.。
The problem is sometimes we don't resist them and so they stay.。
We begin to see or act when those are just lies of the enemy.。
We have to be able to resist the devil because it says he will flee, not he may be, could,。
depends on his day.。
No, he will flee.。
To live genuinely as believers of Jesus, we recognize there is a choice to make in who。
and what we are aligned to, the world or God.。
Cannot be both.。
The inward struggles and the external behaviors we have to overcome, we can if we choose friendship。
with God.。
We draw close to him and that is key to the victory in living in a world where there's。
a lot of tension, in a world where we're being pulled away.。
But it's proactive to draw close.。
It's not a one-off thing.。
It's an intentional, habitual, drawing close day after day after day for the rest of our。
lives while we're here on earth.。
So in the context of Hong Kong and our very busy lives here, what are some of the ways。
that we can draw close to God?。
Well I can tell you what it's not.。
It's not spiritual activity.。
Can I hear an amen?。
Does anybody want spiritual activity for the sake of spiritual activity?。
No.。
It is not your daily Bible reading.。
It is not in the activity of going to church.。
It is not bringing God a list of prayer requests or even listening to beautiful worship music.。
Now don't get me wrong.。
These are all good disciplines and we should do them, but they are a means to enter into。
his presence.。
They are a means in order to commune with God, to have a friendship with them.。
So of course we do all of these things.。
Absolutely read your Bible, come to church, worship, but ask yourself this, did I meet。
with God?。
When you leave the service, did you really meet with God when you were here?。
Did you commune with God?。
Is God a friendship?。
Is there a friendship there?。
Because that's what God wants.。
It's not tasks ticked off a list.。
True friendship is about a true relationship with each other.。
It's the same with God.。
I think in this service especially, some of you really struggle with this idea of friendship。
with God.。
That is so alien to you.。
You can't understand how do you have a friendship with God?。
Well I really encourage you to pursue this because it will change how you view God when。
you realize his pursuit of you is to be in friendship.。
It can seem challenging at times to have a conversation with God rather than just bring。
him your prayer list.。
But it's being intentional about creating that intimacy with him.。
So as I close, I want to bring a take home application.。
One practical way that I personally have found helps me draw closer to God.。
And it's through the idea of contemplative prayer.。
Now this sounds really simple, but it's very difficult.。
But if you can commit to some regular rhythm in your life, in your relationship with God,。
it will deepen your friendship and intimacy.。
And contemplative prayer is about being silently focused on God.。
It's letting go of every thought and other distraction that is around you.。
And let me tell you, that is so difficult.。
And I challenge you to try this because it is not easy.。
And the fact that it's not easy should surprise us.。
Because in this, my version of a practice of the 14th century from the book of Privy。
Counseling, they say you should set aside a certain amount of time.。
Now I would say first of all, you've got to get a timer.。
Because if you don't use a timer, after three minutes, you're going to be like, "Okay, what's。
time then?。
Did we--?"。
So set a timer, first of all, for 20 to 30 minutes.。
Find a quiet space without distraction or disturbance.。
Then believe and accept God's gracious love towards you.。
Imagine for a moment you're resting on him, as a sick child would rest on a comforting。
parent or guardian.。
Next, don't allow yourself to analyze yourself or God.。
This is hugely important.。
Because we know our minds play tricks on us or try to distract us or tell us what we haven't。
done, how unworthy we are, and questions whether or not God really, really does love.。
All of this goes in our mind.。
You've got to push it away.。
Push it away so there are no distractions whatsoever.。
You push it away and you'll be encouraged by the simple truth.。
You are known, you are loved, and you are accepted just as you are in that present moment.。
And if it helps, you repeat, "I am loved.。
I am loved.。
I am loved."。
You see, many of us don't really believe that.。
We say it, but we can't sit in it.。
If you could sit 20 to 30 minutes and you are telling yourself how much you are loved。
in the presence of God, that will do huge wonders for your confidence, that's for sure.。
But to be able to do that isn't easy because we're so busy-minded.。
But the most important thing is once that timer goes off, you've had that meditative。
time with God, intimacy with Him, and it's only 20 minutes of your time.。
It is life-giving.。
I found it hugely freeing for me because it gave me permission not to think about, "Oh,。
well, I must do this, I must do that.。
Well, I better ask for this and I better talk about this with God."。
Instead, there was nothing.。
It was just me and God.。
If you're a parent, you know what it's like when a child climbs up onto your lap and they。
just sit there.。
They're not talking, wriggling, whining, anything.。
They're just there in your presence and it's a beautiful thing.。
And that's how God is and wants us to be with Him.。
So as you leave today, I challenge you all to ask this question daily, "Am I choosing。
friendship with God or the world?"。
And then create within your routine those regular rhythms where you're choosing to seek。
God because you are close to Him, because you have a friendship with Him.。
And victory comes over those internal struggles and then those behaviors when we submit and。
draw close and He's with us.。
I would love to be able to pray for us now.。
So if you would be able to stand.。
When I was preparing this message, one of the pictures that I got was that we were here。
and many of us had scales on our eyes.。
The scales were on our eyes because for a number of different reasons.。
One is for some of us, we don't really know what it is that we are doing that is in the。
world.。
We've been doing things that are choosing friendship with the world more than friendship。
with God for so long, we don't even know what that is.。
And the picture that I got was of scales falling off.。
We need to be a community of believers.。
We need to be a body of Christ that chooses friendship with God, not friendship with the。
world.。
We need help to see where we've chosen the world.。
And so maybe that's you and while we sing in a response song, I believe the scales will。
come off and God will show you.。
He will draw you into place of seeing where you need to let go the things of the world。
that are holding you, that are causing behaviors that you know are not good for you, not good。
for your family.。
And then the other side was this sense that the enemy, he does not want you to even think。
that he does send words and ideas in your head that would cause you to feel anything。
but not good about yourself.。
He doesn't want you to believe that he does that.。
And I believe that the scales need to come off here that we would spiritually, supernaturally。
be able to discern when the enemy is attacking because it's very clear in scripture, we have。
the power as believers of Jesus, the spirit is within us to resist the enemy and he will。
flee.。
And too many of us, we're not resisting.。
So as we pray and as we worship, may our eyes be open to truly see so that we can enter。
into this world, not in the world, not of the world, but because we know that God is。
with us.。
So let me pray.。
Father, I thank you.。
I thank you for everyone here today and everyone watching online.。
Lord, we need help.。
We thank you that you've given us help by your spirit.。
Help us to choose friends with you over friends of the world.。
And I pray for those that are struggling in this area, would their eyes be open to see。
right now.。
I pray, Father God, may our posture as believers be one of humility and repentance as we recognize。
we need you in our lives.。
We can't do it on our own.。
We are not self-sufficient.。
We can't be.。
And I pray, Father, that we would be reminded that the enemy has no power over us.。
We resist and he will flee because we belong to you.。
And I pray for those in this room that have scales over their eyes and have believed the。
lies of the enemy for so long, the narrative over them is distorted.。
I pray, Father God, you remove those scales so they can truly see how much they are known,。
they are seen, they are loved, and they are accepted.。
And Father, we pray this, that may we be truly lifted up in your love.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
Amen.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC ENDS]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
