Well, good morning church, and if you're joining us online in Overflow, good morning to you。
as well.。
I'm going to have a question.。
When you daydream, what do you dream about?。
Like when you're sitting at your desk pretending to work, you know, and like you're staring。
at the screen, but really your mind's somewhere else.。
What are some things that you find yourself thinking about?。
You know, imaginations, things that you wish would happen to you.。
I'm about to give you a little bit more insight into the strange and wonderful mind of Alison.。
I'm only doing this because this is a safe place, I hope.。
And if you didn't already think I was weird, maybe now you'll know.。
Most of my daydreams involve some sort of breaking out of obscurity and into the limelight.。
It's kind of weird.。
For example, I used to do a lot of running.。
So I used to imagine myself like running the Hong Kong marathon.。
And then I'm running the Hong Kong marathon, I'm running, and suddenly I break through。
the pack.。
And then on TV it's like, "Whoa, who is this guy?。
He's so super fast."。
You know, I'm like leading the race and I set a world record pace, right?。
And everyone's like, "Whoa, out of nowhere comes this guy.。
His name's Alison, right?。
And he's such an amazing runner."。
Something like that.。
Or maybe I'm at a concert, you know, and we're like at a John Legend concert, right?。
And then he's playing on the piano and suddenly he's lost his voice and he falls sick.。
He's like, "I'm going to need someone to close out the show."。
Okay, it's like, "You, sir, you look like you're a good singer."。
Okay, "Say less, John Legend."。
Okay, and I get on the piano and I start playing.。
I don't even play the piano, right?。
And then everyone's like, "Whoa, wow, this guy's even better."。
Right?。
Like, "Our ticket was well worth the money."。
Something like that.。
Okay.。
Okay, last one.。
Okay, I promise you.。
I'm walking down the road, right?。
And suddenly I come across a dangerous situation, right?。
And there's these bad guys that have kidnapped a bunch of children.。
And I happen to be in the right place at the right time.。
And because I've been training martial arts and hand-to-hand combat secretly, right, like。
Liam Neeson in Taken, I say to them, "I have a very particular set of skills.。
Skills I've acquired over a very long career.。
Skills that make me a nightmare for people like you.。
Let these kids go now and that'll be the end of it.。
But if you don't, I will find you and I will kill you."。
Right?。
And then, like, you know, I go and I take down all the bad guys and save the day.。
And I was like, "Yeah, what a hero."。
Okay?。
Pray for me, right?。
So, there are things that go through my mind when I'm wondering.。
We come to the story of Elijah today in our Encounter with God series.。
And the reason I told you those things is because this is sort of how Elijah burst onto。
the scene.。
He is a man sort of appearing out of obscurity, appearing out of nowhere.。
We're not really given much about his background or who he is.。
But it's not long before we find out that this isn't just any old person or any normal。
prophet.。
And we find that Elijah is a guy that you really don't want to mess with.。
No, he's not perfect, but he is a powerful prophet, able to do amazing things, a force。
to be reckoned with.。
But it's not because he has any sort of special skills or he's particularly intimidating or。
anything like that.。
But rather, it's because God is working through him.。
It's because he has these amazing encounters with God and God keeps speaking to him, working。
through him.。
And through these encounters, he hears and obeys what God calls him to do.。
And throughout history, Elijah, especially for the Jewish people, Elijah is regarded。
as one of the greatest prophets of all time.。
And today he is still honored and revered and respected.。
In Jewish culture, during the Passover meal, the door is left open at one stage in anticipation。
that perhaps Elijah would return.。
He is the most mentioned prophet in the New Testament.。
In fact, Elijah was so amazing, he was so great that he didn't, one of the few people,。
one of two people in scripture, maybe even in all history, that didn't experience death.。
He was taken up to heaven in chariots of fire, never having experienced what it means to。
die.。
So today, as we look at Elijah, we're going to look at a few ways that this prophet encountered。
God, how it shaped him, how it molded him, how it equipped him to do what God had called。
him to do, and what this means for us today as followers of Jesus in today's age.。
So we're going to look at the Bible and see what it has to say.。
1 Kings 17, 1.。
Again, this is all we know about Elijah right at the beginning.。
Now Elijah, the Tishbite from Tishbe in Gilead said to Ahab, "As the Lord, the God of Israel。
lives whom I serve, there will neither be dew nor rain in the next few years, except。
at my word."。
Now before we get into the details, I'm going to give you a little bit of context.。
It might be helpful to see the state of Israel at this moment.。
So after entering into the promised land, we talked about Joshua a few weeks ago.。
Remember entering into the promised land?。
They've established themselves as a kingdom, right?。
They have these kings, and under King David, Israel becomes the most powerful and prosperous。
and dominant nation in the whole entire world.。
Things are good, and God is faithful to the covenant that he's made with his people.。
This will be a land flowing with milk and honey.。
You'll be prosperous.。
Everything you need will be provided for.。
God is blessing his people.。
And King David dies, and his son Solomon takes over the throne, and this continues.。
This is like the golden age in Israel's history.。
Solomon is a king known for his wisdom, his amazing wisdom, which was given to him by。
God, but also for the riches that even nations and leaders from faraway places would come。
and marvel at just how powerful Israel had become under God's blessing.。
That is, of course, until Solomon's heart turns towards idols.。
We're told towards the end of his life, the women, the people that he marries, the many。
women that he marries, have turned his heart away from God towards these idols.。
And this violates the commitment that Israel had made with God.。
The first two commandments say this, "You shall have no other gods before me."。
Second, "You shall not make for yourself an image in the form of anything in heaven above,。
on the earth beneath, or in the waters below; you shall not bow down to them or worship。
them."。
So there's a consequence to their sin.。
And as a consequence, God says the kingdom of Israel is no longer going to be unified。
and peaceful as it once was, but it's going to be torn in two.。
And the peace and prosperity we see comes to an end.。
And from then on, we see Israel with a long and complicated history of going through different。
kings, different leaders.。
Sadly, most of it involves them constantly being enticed to worship idols and false gods,。
which leads to them being invaded by other countries, taken away into exile.。
They've turned away from the government that they first had with God and started doing。
evil in the sight of the Lord.。
So God sends prophets and messengers constantly to his people.。
And these prophets warn people, write messages of correction, messages of consequences in。
order to let people know, "Hey, we're going in the wrong direction.。
Remember who God is.。
Remember the God that brought you out of Egypt.。
Remember who he is to us.。
Turn your hearts back towards him."。
These are always an invitation to say, "Come back towards me.。
This is your rightful place, not with these other gods and idols that you've turned to,。
but with me, the one true God."。
And I'm emphasizing this because when we look at these stories in the Old Testament sometimes,。
God seems like a grumpy, heartless old man, right?。
Someone who's only interested in punishing his people for the bad thing that they've。
done.。
But when we look a little bit deeper, we see the motivation behind God's actions.。
And his heart is never just to punish for the sake of punishing, but he corrects, he。
leads people back.。
And yes, there are consequences, but it's always out of love.。
And God's heart is that none of his people should perish.。
And we actually see God is a merciful God.。
And he's not just angry at the way that Israels have turned their hearts away from him, but。
actually his heart is broken when we turn away from him.。
He doesn't want his people, his children to be worshiping idols because he wants them。
close to him.。
He wants them safe.。
He knows that the only place, the best place for them to be, the way they were designed。
to live is in close relationship to the creator.。
Again, not because he's some great control freak, but because this is truly the way God。
has called us and designed us and created us to live in steadfast, in relationship,。
in obedience to him.。
So God has to let us know, I want you close to me.。
And every time you break that promise, every time you turn away from me, there are going。
to be consequences, real and serious consequences that you'll have to face in your habitual。
sin.。
And it's in a moment like this that in Israel's history that Elijah appears to us.。
Like I said, out of nowhere, he brings up this prophet and speaks a word over the nation。
of Israel.。
And the current king is a guy called Ahab.。
And like some other kings before him, Ahab had allowed idol worship to run rampant.。
He had married a woman called Jezebel, and Jezebel was a worshiper of the god called。
Baal.。
And Baal was known as an evil king, one of these Canaanite, God, sorry, one of these。
Canaanite idols that enticed people to do bad and evil things.。
She herself is so against God that she orders the prophets of Yahweh to be put to death.。
All this to say it's not a good time to be a follower of God at this time.。
And so when Elijah steps onto the scene, he has a strong and direct word to King Ahab.。
This is a big deal.。
It's sort of like a turning point.。
It's hoping to be a turning point once again in the history of Israel.。
Elijah comes up to the king and says, "As the Lord God of Israel lives," like we said。
just now, "whom I serve, there will be neither dew nor rain in the next few years except。
at my word."。
Now again, like I said before, this sounds kind of harsh.。
You're going to withhold rain, you're going to make there be a famine, and there's going。
to be a drought just because people aren't following you?。
But in reality, this is a warning.。
There's a consequence.。
The Israelites have already known about the consequences of idolatry.。
Back when God was giving the law to the Israelites, he told them, "This land that I'm bringing。
you into, this is the promised land.。
It will be flowing with milk and honey.。
There will be fruitful.。
There will be rain.。
The ground will produce grain.。
There's going to be wine and olive oil, all these things for you if you would love the。
Lord your God and serve him with your whole heart and with all your soul.。
But if you do not, the warning was that God would shut up the heavens so that it will。
not rain and the ground would yield no produce."。
Deuteronomy chapter 11 if you want to check it out for yourself.。
And as the Israelites are stuck in this cycle, the theological term for this is apostasy.。
And under King Ahab, like we said, it's particularly bad.。
Taking a liking to worshipping Baal.。
And Baal was supposed to be the god of thunder, of lightning.。
He was supposed to be the one in control over the weather.。
Baal was seen as the god of fertility.。
He was supposed to be the god who provided for people through controlling the weather。
and being able to make the seasons come and go, making the land produce, all that kind。
of stuff.。
That was supposed to be his role.。
Now we have to ask ourselves the question though, why?。
Why were the Israelites so into Baal worship?。
You would think after all that they'd been through, the way that God had brought them。
out of slavery, out of Egypt, into the promised land, the different things that they had experienced。
and seen firsthand, the power of God at work, the stories that had been passed down through。
the generations, they would have been a little bit more loyal to him.。
The attractiveness of Baal worship laid in the fact that people could worship Baal on。
their own terms.。
They could fulfill the desires, the dark evil desires through worshiping Baal.。
Baal was an encourager of heavy drinking, of sexual license.。
The temple prostitutes, both male and female, were a very popular part of what it meant。
to worship Baal.。
In other words, they could live in sin.。
They could live in immorality.。
They could do whatever they wanted and still call that worship.。
This is the root of our adolatory church, when we put our own desires above how God。
has called us to live.。
So as we're sitting here, we have to ask ourselves today, where are the idols in our lives?。
Where have we given up our knowledge of God and how he has called us to live just to satisfy。
our own wants and desires?。
We might not be literally worshiping idols and images of Baal today, but if there's anything,。
anything at all that has taken your focus away from God and onto yourself and pleasing。
yourself, that is an idol, just like Baal was for the Israelites.。
Some of us are in this time right now, we're facing dry scenes in our life, wondering why。
we aren't seeing fruit and progress, knowing all the while that we haven't given our hearts。
wholly to God, that we've been following these idols instead of fixing and following in the。
footsteps of Jesus.。
And so when Elijah pronounces this challenge, this statement, it wasn't just to King Ahab,。
it was to Baal himself.。
This was God was saying, you know what?。
I am the one.。
I am truly the one who's in charge of creation.。
I'm the one who created the world in the first place.。
You might think Baal has control over the weather.。
No, that's me.。
I am the most high God.。
I am the provider.。
I am the I am.。
I am the creator and idols have no power over me.。
I am the only and one true God.。
And it's a challenge for us and a reminder for us today as well.。
If we want to see God work in our lives, if we want to bear fruit, if we want life, then。
we must put down our idols in order to follow God wholeheartedly.。
And we're about to see through these encounters that Elijah has with God, three main encounters.。
Each encounter gets increasingly more dramatic and ends up with one of the most awesome displays。
of power that we see in the Old Testament, displays of his power and his presence.。
All this to prove that there is only one God.。
Even Elijah's name himself testifies to this fact.。
Elijah means Yahweh is my God.。
And I hope that this statement is one that we'll be able to walk away with today as we。
look at this passage, these passages together.。
So let's look at these encounters because I think they're going to give us a really。
clear picture of who God is and why he is the only true God.。
First encounter involves a brook and some ravens.。
Let me explain.。
So immediately after dropping the mic on a hare, so to speak, and announcing this drought,。
Elijah is commanded to go and hide in a ravine.。
And whilst he's in hiding, whilst he's in this ravine, God provides for him in a miraculous。
way.。
He's out in the wilderness and sort of like a homage, if you read through the Old Testament,。
you see these patterns of how God works, right?。
How God looked after his people in Israel, he continues to do the same for Elijah by。
feeding him in the desert, by providing him food and water, even though there's a drought。
and famine going on.。
It's an amazing little story.。
This is what God says.。
"Then the word of the Lord came to Elijah, 'Leave here, turn eastward and hide in Kareth。
ravine east of the Jordan.。
You will drink from the brook that I have directed the ravens to supply you with food。
there.'。
So he did what the Lord had told him.。
He went to the Kareth ravine east of the Jordan and stayed there.。
The ravens brought him bread and meat in the morning and meat and bread in the evening,。
and he drank from the brook."。
So as we saw with the person of Joshua, Elijah has this spirit, has this mindset that is。
fixed on obeying God, to trust him at all times, even when it didn't make sense.。
Go and hide in the desert?。
How am I going to survive?。
How am I going to live?。
But notice, every time God asks for our obedience, he always shows us his power and ability to。
protect us and to provide for us and to guide us, if we follow his guidance.。
We see this in the middle of a drought, God leads Elijah to water.。
When everyone is feeling the effects of famine, God brings meat and food to Elijah.。
This is God displaying that in fact, he is the one in control over everything.。
Over his creation, he provides these ravens to bring Elijah bread and meat twice a day.。
This is a clear picture of God's rich providence.。
You have to understand that back in that time, getting to eat meat twice a day was a rich。
fare, right?。
It would have been a privilege even in the best of times.。
And here God is providing above and beyond all this to say, God will always unfailingly。
take care of those who rely on him.。
And this is a word and a reminder for us.。
Be confident church that if God has called you to it in his way, he will see you through。
if you trust and obey.。
And we continue to see God work through Elijah in this way.。
God then moves Elijah on to his next encounter.。
We're told that the water in the brook dries up, so it's time to move on.。
And God says to him, go at once to Zarephath in the region of Sidon and stay there.。
I have directed a widow there to supply you with food.。
So Elijah continues on his journey.。
Like I said, this is a journey that Elijah is taking that's going to culminate in this。
amazing encounter with God.。
This next step he has to take though is actually taking him directly into the heart of Baal's。
territory, of his home turf.。
God is surely and slowly moving Elijah into a direct confrontation with Baal.。
And so surely enough, Elijah gets to his destination and he meets a woman, a widow and her son。
struggling on, struggling to survive through this drought and this famine.。
And Elijah asks her for water and some food.。
Now it's strange because she's really in no position to help Elijah.。
So she says to him, as surely as the Lord your God lives, she replied, I don't have。
any bread.。
Only a handful of flour in a jar and a little olive oil in a jug.。
I'm gathering a few sticks to take home and make a meal for myself and my son that we。
may eat it and die.。
Notice her response.。
This woman does not yet have a belief in God.。
She acknowledges she kind of knows who God is.。
She's probably heard stories about him, but she says, it's the Lord, your God, Elijah,。
your God, not my God.。
She was probably a Baal worshiper herself, but it seems as though she's already given。
up hope and she's waiting for death.。
Her so-called God who was supposed to look after her, who was supposed to be able to。
provide her with food and all these things has failed and all is lost.。
Life as she knows it at this moment is over.。
And but this made me think, maybe for some of us here today, we're feeling a little bit。
like this woman.。
And we're sitting here today, we've heard about God, we've heard about who he is, but。
you would not say yet you had a relationship with God, even though you've heard about him.。
And you might not literally be starving to death, but maybe in your spirit, in your outlook。
on life and your hope, it's felt like you've been a season of drought and famine.。
And the things that you've been putting your faith in have failed you.。
And it feels like life has lost all meaning and there's really nothing else now to live。
for.。
Maybe this is a word for you.。
As these words of Elijah spoke to this widow brought her hope, I pray that if this is you。
today, you resonate with these words and it will bring you hope as well.。
Elijah says to her, do not be afraid.。
Do not be afraid.。
This is the word of life.。
He's about to tell her God's going to take care of this.。
So he says to her, this is what the Lord, the God of Israel says, the jar of flour will。
not be used up and the jug of oil will not run dry until the day the Lord sends rain。
on the land.。
And this is exactly what happens.。
She thought she only had a little left, but God sustains it.。
The jar of flour does not get used up.。
The jug of oil does not run dry in keeping word with the words that are spoken by Elijah。
through the, sorry, through Elijah by the Lord.。
If we're in a season today, church, where it feels like the hope, your hope has run。
dry.。
If you're in a season where you feel like you're done trusting in other things, maybe。
the answer for you today is to turn to God, to hear him say, do not be afraid, to hear。
him say, I will give you hope and life again.。
You might feel like I've run out of bread.。
The things that have been sustaining my life have run out.。
But Jesus says, I am the bread of life.。
You might think I only have a little handful left.。
There's not much I'm, I'm hanging on by a thread here, but God says he will bring you。
to a place of abundance.。
It may seem like there's only this tiny little bit of oil left, and once I use it up, that's。
it.。
I don't know what else I'm going to hope in.。
God says, put your trust in me and your cup will overflow.。
God is the only one who's able to sustain your faith.。
He's the only source where if, as long as you put your hope in him, your hope will never。
run dry.。
We see that even the worst of times, as we read on in this story, right?。
God provides for herself, for her son and for herself for a while, but things get worse.。
Her son dies whilst Elijah is staying with them.。
But again, look how God wants to display his power.。
Even in the face of death, God remains sovereign.。
This is God really proving I am the true God.。
I am the only God of life.。
And this woman's son dies and she laments.。
Why did you come here?。
Just to kill my son?。
And so Elijah again prays, oh my Lord, let this boy's life return to him.。
And through Elijah's prayer, God brings the boy back to life.。
And all this is going to show this is God's way of reaching this woman, of encountering。
this woman, to let her know that he is the true God.。
And she declares it with herself with her mouth.。
Now I know that you are a man of God and the word of the Lord from your mouth is the truth.。
Church, let me say this again.。
If you feel as though hope in your life is lost today, if you feel that hope in your。
life even is dead today, if you want to know the true God who is the source of all life。
and all hope, cry out to him.。
Call on him.。
He is the only one who is able to give you life.。
And so after helping out this widow and her son, making sure that they're going to be。
okay and taken care of, finally now it's time for Elijah to go and confront the evil King。
Ahab face to face.。
It's been a long time, the Bible told us, since they had last met.。
After a long time, three years, in the third year, the word of the Lord came to Elijah.。
Go and present yourself to Ahab and I will send rain on the land.。
So Elijah went to present himself to Ahab.。
Now a little bit more about Ahab.。
It's clear by now to us, to the reader, if you've been reading through the story, that。
Ahab is not the kind of King, not the kind of leader that was fit to lead the people。
of God, to lead the nation of Israel.。
If you read a little bit more in the passage 1 Kings 18, it tells us, yes, the land was。
in time of severe famine and drought, but instead of looking after his people, King。
Ahab is still more interested in looking after his own things.。
Ahab orders people to go out and look for resources, but not because he wants to help。
his people.。
He says, well, let's go out, look for grass, look for water, so that the horses and the。
mules will be kept alive and we don't have to kill any of our own animals.。
This is strange, right?。
Because if Ahab was a good leader, he would have been out making sure that people like。
the people Elijah just helped, the widows and the orphans he had just encountered, will。
be taken care of.。
This was the call of the Israelite King to look after the widows and the orphans.。
But yet he's far more concerned and worried about his own possessions.。
He is more interested in self-preservation.。
Again, this just goes to prove, right, whatever we worship will end up dictating how we live。
our lives.。
As Jesus put it, where our treasure is, there your heart will be also.。
And as I was reading this part, I felt like God was reminding me to ask ourselves the。
question where are our priorities?。
Where do our priorities lie?。
Do we have our hearts set on the things of God or on the things of man?。
Because whenever we're chasing idols and things that are not of God, our priorities are going。
to be messed up.。
And a good way to check to see if we're giving in to the idols in our lives is to look at。
our priorities.。
We do a heart check and a mind check.。
Ask ourselves the tough questions.。
What are we holding as important?。
Where do we find ourselves putting our resources, our time, our money?。
What is our mind filled with?。
What are these goals that we're trying to hit?。
Because if they're not the things that are on God's heart, then maybe it's time for us。
to start making some changes.。
Maybe it's time for us to realign our priorities, to make sure that our hearts are set aligned。
with what God has on his heart.。
Ahab is not able to see this.。
Instead when Elijah comes to him, he sees Elijah as, okay, here's someone that I can。
blame for all my problems.。
As Ahab and Elijah meet, Ahab says to him, "Is that you, you troubler of Israel?"。
Now I'm not sure, but have you ever been called a troublemaker?。
Well let me ask it this way.。
When you hear the term troublemaker, who comes to mind?。
Don't look at them right now, okay?。
I mean I can see a few, a corner of my eye right now.。
I'm not going to call you out, Justin, all right?。
I used to be called a troublemaker a lot actually, believe it or not, when I was at school.。
One of the questions I would hate being asked, and I was asked almost, maybe not every day,。
but every other day, the teachers would say, "Ellison, tell me what you've done wrong today.。
What trouble have you got into?"。
And I never knew how to answer because on any day I've done multiple things wrong, all。
right?。
So I wouldn't want to say something that the teacher didn't already know and get myself。
into even more trouble, right?。
Something they didn't already know about.。
But Ahab, when Ahab calls Elijah a troublemaker, this was an accusation.。
It was an insult.。
Like I said, he was putting the blame on Elijah for the drought and the famine that they were。
facing.。
This was Ahab's way of saying, "This is your fault, Elijah.。
You've gone and you've angered Baal.。
And because you've angered Baal, this is why this famine, this is why this drought is happening.。
This is why there's been no rain, because you've insulted Baal."。
And again, this just shows how stubborn and how far away Ahab's heart had become from。
God, how far away he had turned.。
It's been three years that they've been facing this drought.。
And any time in this three years, Ahab knew the law.。
He knew why this was happening.。
He could have repented at any moment.。
He could have turned his heart back toward God.。
He knew full well, I think, that this famine, this drought was due to the idol worship that。
he and he had led other people to participate in, and yet he refuses to repent and to change.。
Instead, he tries to shift the blame onto Elijah.。
He points fingers.。
This is easy thing to do, church.。
And it's also cowardly.。
People who are stuck in sin, who refuse to change, who refuse to take ownership, will。
always blame everyone and everything else but themselves.。
But again, this just goes to show, for those of us who are obediently following God, if。
we're standing the light, if we're doing God's will, and if we're being called a troublemaker。
by those doing evil, you know you're doing something right.。
The prophets were often called troublemakers, actually.。
Not just Elijah, but the other prophets as well.。
They were called troublemakers because they went against the status quo of the time.。
They weren't afraid to speak the words of truth and call out sin in people.。
They were called troublemakers because they asked the tough questions.。
How are you looking after people?。
What are you doing to fulfill this role that God has given to you?。
They were called troublemakers because they revealed and spoke the truth.。
The disciples were called troublemakers at one point because of their love for Jesus.。
Paul and his friends were called troublemakers because they would not shut up about the gospel.。
Even Jesus himself was being called a rebel and a subverter because he declared the truth。
about who he was.。
In our fight against idolatry, in our fight against evil, we have to be ready, church.。
Anytime we stand up against idolatry, anytime we stand up against injustice, anytime we。
stand up to the principalities and power of this world, anytime we speak the truth over。
lies, we must be ready to be met with resistance and be labeled as troublemakers of this world.。
But take heart.。
We're not the troublemakers.。
We're the ones who are calling people to turn their hearts back towards God.。
And so at this point, God says enough is enough.。
I'm about to show you that actually Ahab is the real troublemaker here.。
And so Elijah challenged him to a showdown.。
Elijah says, "I have not made trouble for Israel," Elijah replied, "but you and your。
father's family have because you have abandoned the Lord's commands and have followed the。
bowels."。
"Now summon people from all over Israel and meet me on Mount Carmel and bring the 450。
prophets of Baal and the 450 prophets of Asherah who eat at Jezebel's table."。
So Ahab sent word throughout all Israel and assembled the prophets on Mount Carmel.。
This is like the fight of the century being set up here.。
In Ahab's mind, he probably thought, "Well, okay, this is going to be an easy victory。
for me.。
900 prophets of idols, 900 prophets of Baal versus just one prophet of Yahweh."。
On paper, this was not a fair fight.。
And to Ahab, this was an opportunity to shut this troublemaker up, to put this prophet。
of God to shame.。
With the whole of Israel watching, "I'm going to humiliate Elijah before these assembled。
people.。
He's going to know that he's wrong and then we're going to kill him."。
That was probably the plan going on in his mind.。
But as we're about to see, there's going to be a rude awakening for Ahab.。
You see Elijah, though, he's not fazed at all.。
He's not worried about the fact that he's going up against 900 of these prophets of。
Baal.。
It's almost like he knows what's about to happen.。
And in the midst of all this, I don't want us to miss this, his main concern is still。
for God's people.。
He has the heart of God towards his people.。
His main concern is a final warning for them to wake them up, to help them change their。
hearts and their minds.。
Elijah went before the people and said, "How long will you waver between two opinions?。
If the Lord is God, follow him.。
But if Baal is God, follow him."。
But the people said nothing.。
It's a significant challenge that Elijah lays down to the people.。
Again, as we've already mentioned, the main problem that Israel had was constantly slipping。
into apostasy, following God in one instance and then giving up on him in the next.。
And it's a pattern that, if we're honest with ourselves, maybe we find ourselves falling。
into today as well.。
We know who God is, for those of us who do.。
But at times, right, Baal worship, idol worship is still very enticing.。
We have seen God work in our lives, but at times, our hearts are still drawn towards。
these idols that we hold.。
And Elijah's questions to the Israelites still stands to us today.。
How long will we waver?。
Because there's no such thing as being a Christian, yet still putting our faith in things that。
are not of God.。
We cannot claim to be a Christian, but still find spirituality and spiritual hope in other。
sources like feng shui or tarot cards or horoscopes and things like that.。
We cannot claim to be following Jesus, but yet prioritize our business, our status, things。
of this world over how he has called us to live.。
So Elijah tells them, "You have to get off the fence.。
Make up your mind."。
Other parts of the Bible says this, "No one can be a slave of two masters."。
Jesus tells us if we're not for him, then we're against him.。
Revelation 3.16 says, "So because you are lukewarm, neither hot or cold, I'm about to。
spit you out of my mouth."。
But the people said nothing.。
Church, let's not be a people who say nothing.。
God is not looking for a church that is silent.。
God is not looking for those whose faith tosses and turns.。
God is not looking for people whose faith is hidden while there's injustice in this。
world, whilst there are still people who don't know the love of Jesus.。
And I pray as this body of Christ, as this community, we will never be a people that。
stay silent, that we will never be a church that is afraid to cause trouble for the evildoers。
of this world.。
And I pray that as a church, we'll be loud and bold and active in our faith because we。
know that the God we serve is the most high or powerful God.。
And we're about to see Elijah prove it.。
Elijah said to them, "I am only one of the Lord's prophets left, but Baal has 450 prophets.。
Get two bulls first.。
Let Baal's prophets choose one for themselves and let them cut it into pieces and put it。
on the wood, but not set fire to it.。
I will prepare the other bull and put it on the wood, but not set fire to it.。
Then you call upon the name of your God and I will call the name of the Lord.。
The God who answers by fire, he is God."。
Then all the people said, "What you say is good."。
Elijah said to the prophets of Baal, "Choose one of the bulls and prepare it first, since。
there are so many of you.。
Call upon the name of your God, but do not light the fire."。
So they took the bull given them and prepared it.。
Then they called upon the name of Baal from morning until noon.。
"Baal, answer us," they shouted.。
Things are made as hard for Yahweh as possible.。
Elijah is one against 400.。
Baal's people get the first choice of the bull.。
The whole thing is set up to try and tip the scales against Elijah.。
The Baals, they make the first move, so it's like if you're playing a game of badminton。
or tennis or something.。
If you serve first, it's always your advantage.。
All the advantage was given to the prophets and the worshipers of Baal.。
Everything was done to tip the balance against them, to make this not into a fair fight.。
But check this out.。
There was no response.。
No one answered.。
And they danced around at the altar they had made.。
At noon, Elijah began to taunt them.。
"Shout louder," he said.。
"Surely he's God.。
Maybe he's in deep thought or busy or traveling."。
Some translation says maybe he's on the toilet, right?。
Maybe he's sleeping and must be awakened.。
They shouted louder and slashed themselves with swords and spears as was their custom。
until their blood flowed.。
Midday passed and they continued their frantic prophesying until the time of evening sacrifice,。
but there was no response.。
No one answered.。
No one paid attention.。
How ironic.。
Now, if Baal worship wasn't such an evil practice, you would almost feel sorry for them as what's。
happening here.。
They tried to humiliate Elijah, but they're the ones being humiliated right now.。
These prophets put up every trick in the book.。
All these tactics were things that were supposed to entice a reaction from Baal.。
The self-mutilation, the frantic prophesying were supposed to be tactics to get Baal's。
attention.。
But in the end, it's absolutely useless.。
But this made me think in the same way for us.。
The efforts that we put into pleasing and chasing our idols, all the effort we put into。
the things of this world will always amount to nothing.。
This is why every time we chase idols, we always end up feeling empty inside.。
It never works.。
This is why the things of this world will never satisfy us no matter how much of it。
we have.。
We always want more of it.。
We're never satisfied.。
So why are we running around making so much effort, in some cases even hurting ourselves,。
to try and please these idols, to try and get most of these things we can, to things。
that will never fully be able to respond and to satisfy us?。
The things of this world, church, will never satisfy.。
They will never be able to answer our prayers.。
Contrast this to Elijah's response.。
He repairs the altar.。
He arranges the wood.。
He puts his sacrifice, drenches the whole thing in water.。
We're told it's drenched in water, and he says a prayer.。
Elijah says, "Lord, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, let it be known today that you。
are God in Israel and that I am your servant and have done all these things at your command.。
Answer me, Lord.。
Answer me so that these people will know that you, God, are God and that you are turning。
your hearts, turning their hearts back again."。
It's a soft prayer compared to the franticness of the prophets of Baal.。
But there's a really beautiful thing about this prayer that really reveals Elijah's pastoral。
heart and God's heart for his people.。
Because yet, yes, he is frustrated that people have turned to idol worship.。
The double-mindedness of these people has gone against the will of God.。
But notice the prayer.。
The prayer is not yet, "Punish these people.。
Kill them right now, God.。
They deserve death.。
Look how they've turned away from you."。
That's not what Elijah says.。
Rather, it's for them to have their eyes opened, to have their hearts restored.。
Let them know you are God so they can turn their hearts back to you.。
Like I said in the beginning, this is always God's heart for his people.。
For them to be back to him again, for them to be back close to him so that he can love。
on them and he can provide for them and take care of them in the best way that he knows。
how.。
God responds so that his children will turn their hearts back to him.。
God responds in a way for everyone to see who he is.。
And when God responds, there is no hoax.。
There is no deception.。
It's a powerful and direct answer, a true display of his power.。
Then the fire of the Lord fell and burned up the sacrifice, the wood, the stones, the。
soil.。
Think about how powerful that fire would have to be to burn up stones, to lick up the water。
in the trench.。
When the people saw this, they felt prostrate and cried, "The Lord, he is God.。
The Lord, he is God."。
The story ends with a powerful and dramatic encounter with God through God's fire, the。
all-consuming fire, the holy fire, the fire that leaves people with no doubt that God。
is the only true God.。
The fire that leaves people with no choice but to bow down and worship him.。
We spent the past few weeks in this series talking about wanting to encounter God.。
But if we really want a true encounter with God that's going to be lasting and changes。
our lives and changes our hearts, we have to get rid of the idols in our lives, church.。
We have to get away everything that's distracted us from him, who he's called us to be, how。
he's called us to live, so that him and him alone sits at the highest priority out of。
everything that we live for.。
So we're going to take a moment right now, church, to pray.。
And I'm going to pray and ask God to show us where the idols in our lives might be.。
And it might be a scary thing to do, but I'm going to ask also for God to come and to burn。
away everything else that doesn't belong in our hearts and our minds, to remove these。
idols that we might have turned our heart towards.。
And we'll find that God's heart is one of mercy and grace and love.。
He's not seeking to punish us, but he's seeking to turn our hearts back towards him because。
that's the best place for us to be.。
So get yourselves comfortable in whatever way you normally talk to God, church.。
Maybe you want to close your eyes if that helps you focus or something like that.。
Just do a bit of a heart check right now.。
Have there been things that have taken priority over God in your lives?。
Have there been things that you've turned to for your source of hope and life instead。
of Jesus?。
It's a deep question.。
Sometimes these things are kind of subtle.。
But as you pray, just allow the Holy Spirit to bring them up.。
One thing that as I was thinking between these services and talking to someone, one of the。
things that we so often fall victim to as an idol in our society is the praise of man.。
And we want to do things and perform and reach certain goals because we want other people。
to see, "Oh yeah, that person is good.。
That person is great."。
Or we're trying to please other people's expectations.。
Jesus reminds us, "My opinion of you is the most important."。
It's more important to please God rather than man.。
Whatever it is, church, just continue to allow God to speak to you about it.。
And when he does, just confess it to him and tell him about it.。
And then just imagine that fire like Elijah came, come down and burn it away.。
God's holiness, God's presence.。
And for him to turn your heart back towards him again.。
So Father, we pray for our hearts.。
We pray for our minds.。
Burn everything else away till there's a pure and true desire just for you and you alone.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
