Yeah, well when I graduated from university, the first two years out of。
university, I had two different jobs and I didn't know really what I wanted to do.。
I didn't know who I wanted to be and I didn't know really where I was heading。
and I just felt like my life was drifting but I didn't know what to。
do about it. And if somebody would have asked me at that point in time, "How is。
God at work in your life right now at this moment?" which I think is a good。
question, but at that time I would have said, "I have no idea. I don't know." As a matter。
of fact, it actually even felt like that God is absent, that nothing special,。
particular seems to be happening. And perhaps some of you are feeling that。
same way or you would answer that question the same way if I were to ask。
you, "What is God doing in your life right now?" I don't know. Maybe we。
just have our weekly routine where we're just going through the motions and it。
always seems to be the same kind of thing and we're just like, "I don't know。
what God is doing in that or where God is in that." Maybe you actually are going。
through a difficult season and it certainly doesn't feel like God is at。
work in this difficult season. And so you're also wondering, "Where。
is God in that or is God in that at all?" And so I want to, today with you, through。
this message, I want to explore a couple of questions. The first one is, "Does God。
work in our lives even when we don't see it happening?" Is God at work in those。
moments that just seem mundane or even where there's pain and struggle even if。
we can't see it? And is God weaving a story together that we cannot see yet? Is。
there a deeper meaning that perhaps God's going to bring out of the mundane。
or even the difficult and the suffering that one day we get to see? And then of。
course the question is, "How do we see it? How do we know or how can we know what。
God is doing? How do we actually find that out?" So that's what I want to。
explore with you today. We are in the final sermon of our sermons here, the。
story of Joseph. I don't know about you, I've been enjoying it thoroughly. Anyone。
else? Yes? Okay, good. Thank you. Front row, come on. No, even for myself, whether it's。
been in preparing or even listening to others preach, God has spoken to me and I。
trust that God has been speaking to you through his Word, by Spirit, you know,。
through the community. And so it's been an incredible journey. Now let me set the。
context for us for today's message. So the last two weeks we had Pastor Justin。
and we had Pastor John and they talked about forgiveness and reconciliation,。
a process of working through forgiving someone. And then Pastor John talked。
about reconciliation and repentance and how Joseph devised these tests。
for his brothers to see whether or not they really could reconcile. And they。
passed the test with flying colors because Judah and his brothers, they。
didn't just throw Benjamin under the bus, they actually went back to Pharaoh with。
Benjamin when he was accused of stealing his silver cup and they showed。
that there was a repentance of their sin in their hearts for what they had done.。
And then Judah even offered himself as a substitute to take the place of Benjamin。
when he was supposed to be enslaved, which was quite different than what he。
did to Joseph all these years earlier where they had sold him into slavery. Now。
he was offering himself. So it was amazing. So Joseph was finally at this。
point where he felt like he could show them the forgiveness, he could reconcile with。
them, the relationship could be restored, and he makes himself known and that's。
where we're gonna pick up the story. So in Genesis, sorry, Genesis 45 verse 1 it。
says this, "Then Joseph could no longer control himself before all his。
attendants and he cried out, 'Make everyone leave my presence!' So there was no one。
with Joseph when he made himself known to his brothers and he wept so loudly。
that the Egyptians heard him and Pharaoh's household heard about it.。
Joseph said to his brothers, 'I am Joseph! Is my father still living?' But his。
brothers were not able to answer him because they were terrified at his。
presence." Now this is a highly emotional moment. Joseph didn't know if this。
moment would ever come in his life. But now he could see that he。
could restore this relationship, there could be reconciliation, and so he makes。
himself known to his brothers. "I am Joseph!" Now what's amazing with this。
is before he's been actually speaking with an interpreter. So he's not speaking。
Hebrew but now he's saying in Hebrew, "I am Joseph! Is my father still living?" And I。
also love that after revealing his identity, he right away。
wants to know what's going on with his father and that just shows how important。
his family is to him. I think we can relate to this because these。
matters when it comes to reconciliation and forgiveness. It's。
just so important to us. But I don't think that his brother heard that part,。
"Is my father still living?" I think they were just so shocked by Joseph suddenly。
who's been working through an interpreter, suddenly speaking Hebrew and。
saying, "I am Joseph!" That anything after that they couldn't hear. And let's put。
ourselves in the shoes of Joseph's brothers. They sold Joseph into slavery. I。
mean that was a heinous thing. They thought he was dead. They didn't think he。
was alive anymore, let alone did they think they would ever cross his path. And。
now they're standing here in front of the Prime Minister of Egypt and he。
reveals himself to be their brother. Now they're fully at the mercy of him. He has。
so much power, so much authority and they don't know that he's had these tests and。
that his intention is to reconcile. They don't know that at this point in time. So。
we were told that they are terrified. And I think we can understand why because。
they're thinking, "Oh no, oh no, this is it." But let's see how things continue.。
Verse 4, "Then Joseph said to his brothers, 'Come close to me.'" When they...。
Okay, perfect timing. You can say a quick prayer that my cough doesn't keep coming。
otherwise I'm going to keep coughing this whole time. Thank you Chapman. So let's。
continue in verse 4. "Then Joseph said to his brothers, 'Come close to me.' When they。
had done so, he said, 'I am your brother Joseph, the one you sold into Egypt. And。
now do not be distressed and do not be angry with yourselves for selling me。
here because it was to save lives that God sent me ahead of you. For two years。
now there has been famine in the land and for the next five years there will。
be no plowing and reaping. But God sent me ahead of you to preserve for you a。
remnant on earth and to save your lives by a great deliverance. So then it was。
not you who sent me here but God. He made me to Pharaoh, Lord of his... He made me。
father to Pharaoh, Lord of his entire household and ruler of all of Egypt. Now。
hurry back to my father and say to him, 'This is what your son Joseph says. God。
made me Lord of all Egypt. Come down to me. Don't delay. You shall live in the。
region of Goshen and be near me. You, your children and grandchildren, your flocks。
and herds and all you have, I will provide for you there because five years。
of famine are still to come. Otherwise you and your household and all who。
belong to you will become destitute.'" In other words, if you don't come, everyone。
is dying. So Joseph, he recognizes that his brothers are totally freaked out。
when he had made himself known. So he tells them to come close. And I think。
this is so powerful if you think about the distance there had been, you know,。
between his brothers when they, at the time when he sold them in slavery. I mean, I。
don't think you get much further apart from that when you want to kill your。
family member and then last second you decide to sell them into slavery. And so。
but now there's this drawing near and there's the restoring, you know, of this。
relationship and there's in Joseph and this intimacy of being close to each。
other. He says, "I am Joseph, your brother." Wow. That's amazing.。
Now, what I also really appreciate, and I think this is really important, is Joseph。
does not ignore what actually happened. So even though he wants to。
reconcile, even though he has forgiven them, he still speaks truth. He still。
acknowledges what happened. "I'm your brother whom you sold into slavery." And。
he actually mentions that twice. "The one you sold. I'm that guy." And I think。
that's important for us because when we forgive and when we reconcile, it。
doesn't mean that we suddenly have to pretend like things didn't happen.。
We can actually still truly name the things that have hurt us and that。
have caused us pain. You know, I think that's really important. But then it's。
immediately after that he reassures them. I mean, that is, you。
know, I think of this emoji, you know, where the head is exploding. That's like。
mind-blowing, right? Like, not only is he forgiving and reconciling them, now he's。
like re-ensuring them in this very vulnerable moment where they're like。
totally freaked out. It's like, wow, what kind of love, mercy, and grace is that?。
Seriously. I mean, just think of that. Like, he's so concerned for them that。
he's able to pick up on in this very emotional moment and this thing that。
he's been waiting for for a long time, that they are totally。
freaked out, and so he cares for them and he reassures them. He says, "Do not be。
distressed and do not be angry with yourselves for selling me." Wow. I mean,。
this just bears witness that this is not some casual, he's really, you know,。
still making up his mind whether or not he's forgiving him. I mean, this is like。
some genuine love, some genuine grace, some genuine forgiveness, some genuine。
reconciliation. And this really raises the question, you know, how in the world。
is Joseph able to do that? You know, where does this love come from? And Joseph,。
because Joseph is showing us grace that we know from God, that we know。
from Jesus. It's an undeserved grace, you know, where we sin, we sin against God, we。
sin against other people, and Jesus forgives us by laying down his life on。
the cross, you know, dying and rising, and we don't deserve this grace and mercy.。
Joseph is imaging the same forgiving, loving grace in this moment. Like, how is。
he, where does this come from? Well, I think it comes from God, because Joseph。
met God in his journey. There was multiple times when we were going。
through sermon series where it said the Lord was with Joseph, and he showed him。
his steadfast love, even in dark moments. So Joseph had his deep encounter with。
the loving and the merciful and the caring God, even in the midst of。
difficulty. So that's one reason. So Joseph himself has experienced。
this love, and he's now giving this love, this grace that he himself has。
experienced. But there's another thing, and I believe that the other reason。
why Joseph is able to do that is because he's able now, at this point in his life,。
when he looks back after all these events that have occurred, that seem。
seemingly just like a streak of bad luck, and you know, going from bad to worse, he。
sees God's hand at work in all of that. He sees God working through these。
situations, something that looked random and just, you know, painful before.。
Suddenly, Joseph understands that God has brought him to this point with his。
brothers, with his family, because he wanted to work through Joseph to save。
his family, to bring about a great deliverance from this famine. And that。
this was part of God working underneath the surface of things all along. And。
Joseph is able just to see the grace and the goodness of God, even in。
those difficult things. And that is another way why he's able to show love,。
because he can see the love of God in his life. But I want to look with you at。
those three verses here that are highlighted, where Joseph touches on。
this providence, this talking about God's sovereignty, basically. So in verse。
five says, "Do not be angry with yourself for selling me here, because it was to。
save lives that God sent me ahead of you." You know, God was working in this.。
Verse seven, "But God sent me ahead of you." Again, God was working in this to。
preserve you from a remnant from earth. And then verse eight, "So then it was not。
you who sent me here, but God. He made me father to Pharaoh, Lord of this entire。
household and ruler of all of Egypt." So Joseph is saying in all this that。
has happened, he now suddenly has a broader view. He has a bigger perspective。
to what's going on than he had before. You know, beforehand this just looked。
like painful, difficult experiences. And now he's seeing the hand of God working。
through all these difficult and painful things and bringing him to this point。
for this purpose in this moment. I mean, this is again, emoji, mind-blowing.。
Right? Absolutely incredible. Now, let's just think this through a。
little bit. If Joseph was not sold into slavery, he would have not been brought。
to Egypt. If he would have not been brought to Egypt, he would have not been。
part of his household. If he would have not been part of his household, part of。
his wife would have not accused him of rape. If part of his wife would have not。
accused him of rape, he would have not been imprisoned in the prison from the。
guard, the chief of the guard. If he would not have been imprisoned in this。
prison, he would have not met the cup bearer. He would have not met the baker.。
If he would have not interpreted a dream, then when the cup bearer was released。
and later on Pharaoh had a dream, you know, he could have not told Pharaoh。
about this guy in prison who can interpret dreams. And then when he。
interprets the dream, throughout this whole experience he's been。
learning administrative skills and so he has got, God gives him the grace and the。
vision for how this dream about seven years of plentiful, seven years of。
famine, you know, he has a plan for how to address that. And so because of all of。
the series of events, Joseph, you know, is able to save many lives. Isn't that。
amazing? And there's no way that he could see that or know that or understand that。
as he's walking through these things. It's only by looking back that he。
sees it, right? And one of the things that God is doing here, he is, if you,。
you know, think of the book of Genesis. He has, God has made a covenant with。
Abraham and then he makes the same covenant with Isaac and with Jacob,。
Joseph's father. And it is the promise that, you know, God will bless all nations。
through this line of family. So God is seeing through that this family carries。
forward because if Joseph would not be in Egypt, his family would die in Canaan.。
They would die of starvation. But God cares more than just for the family,。
actually cares for the whole region by providing food. So this is absolutely。
incredible. Now, what I want you to notice is that, actually, let me go back.。
I actually want to say something else first. So just to summarize the story a。
little bit. So then Joseph does bring his father who thought he would never see。
his son again. So he brings Jacob to Egypt. His father thought he was dead.。
Now he gets to see him, he gets to see his children, he gets to bless them. What a。
amazing moment, right? When you thought you would never see your child again and。
now you're able to have this, these sort of moments with him. And so this。
family, you know, is really cared for, is really restored. I mean, it's just amazing.。
And in Joseph, when he looks at all of this life, he doesn't say, "Oh, well, I guess。
that worked out good." Like, it's not like, "Well, it was kind of sucked but now it。
somehow came together." That's not what he says, right? He says it was God working。
through these things, bringing this great salvation, this great preservation about.。
And when theologians talk about this, they talk about either the sovereignty。
of God or the providence of God. And so I have a definition for you for what that。
is. Divine providence is the understanding that God actively guides。
history and individual lives, ultimately ensuring the fulfillment of his will and。
purposes. Let me read it again. Divine providence is the understanding that God。
actively guides history and individual lives, ultimately ensuring the。
fulfillment of his will and purposes. And God sovereignly will, in his power, in all。
of his glory, in all of his might, he will accomplish what he has set out to。
accomplish and there is nothing that can stop him from doing that. That is amazing.。
But we have a question. I think some of you probably have been asking this and。
that is in these three verses that we looked at, five, seven, and eight, it raised。
a question. Here's the question. Does God cause bad things to happen to us as part。
of this providence in our lives? You know, because it emphasizes so strongly that it。
wasn't Joseph's brothers but God. So does that mean that God somehow sold Joseph。
into slavery? The quick answer is no. You know, God doesn't do evil acts. He doesn't。
commit sin. Joseph's brothers were truly responsible for what they had done. They。
had sinned. They actually had to repent of their sin. And it was just that God could。
foreknew what would happen and so he chooses to work through this event that。
is evil, that is not good, but he's bringing about his good purposes. So。
that's a huge difference. Now there's a lot to this question. I just wanted to。
acknowledge it and give a short answer. But I think that's important.。
Now, divine providence is actually different than God working miraculously.。
When God works miraculously, he overrides natural laws. Like if I'm ill and sick。
in a terminal way and there is no medical way to help me and somebody。
prays for me and Jesus heals me and the medical community has no idea how this。
is possible, that's a miracle. But that's not providence. You know, providence is。
God working through everyday life events. It's working through normal occurrences,。
through natural things happening and moving things along. Like we saw in。
Joseph's life. He worked through the evil act of his brothers. He worked through。
him learning how to administer in part of his household. He worked through all。
these things, but yet he's weaving together a greater story and there's a。
deeper meaning and he's bringing meaning, a redemptive meaning out of all。
these events and he's bringing about his purpose. So that is providence, you know,。
versus a miracle. Now Joseph at the end of his life, or actually it's not the end。
of his life, it's the end of chapter 50, which is the last chapter of Genesis, he。
summarizes his life again and he highlights this providence again. This。
is the most famous verse actually from the story of Joseph. It's Genesis 50,。
verse 20, and it says this, "You intended to harm," he's talking to his brothers, "but。
God intended it for good, to come to what is now being done, the saving of many。
lives." So God can turn other people's evil intentions and he can take them and。
work in and through them and bring about something redemptive, something good. And。
then even those who intend to harm, his brothers who intended to harm。
Joseph, you know, God ultimately brought about good. And it's also interesting。
that this is highlighted again, so I think this is a theme God really wants。
us to see. He really wants us to know this because it's highlighted so。
strongly in the story of Joseph. But this brings us to the point, what about us? You。
know, Joseph's life invites us to reflect on how can we know, see,。
understand the providence of God in our lives? How can we see these maybe。
randomly seeming events, you know, that there is actually God weaving a greater。
story out of that? You know, what do we do? It's all great that。
this is written about in the Bible, but what about our lives? How can we see that。
in our life? And I want to just think with us about this and have a few。
thoughts I think are important as we process this. So the first thing is,。
and I think this is really important to say, that not everything that happens to。
you is good. And I think this is absolutely crucial. What Joseph's。
brothers did to him was not good. Being sold into slavery is not good. Suffering。
as a slave is not good. You know, so that is super important. Just because。
God works through something bad and brings something good out of it doesn't。
mean that the thing that happened is good. So that's the first thing。
that I think is absolutely crucial. Second, and is going talking a little。
bit more about the providence. You know, seeing God's providence in our lives, it。
gives us a broader perspective. It's like we're giving a different set of eyes, or。
it's like if this room was dark, we see very limited things. And it's like seeing。
the providence of God is like somebody switched on the light switch and。
suddenly we can see so much more by looking at the same place. So the same is。
true with our lives. When we look at our lives, you know, a lot of times it's like。
it's dark and we don't see anything that God is doing. But when the light switch。
is flipped on, then suddenly we can see this broader thing that God is doing,。
that God is working out. And we can see his grace and his mercy, and we can see。
him bringing about good. And so in light of God's providence, there's now a。
redemptive aspect that emerges that we can see. And I have a statement here I。
want to share with you. I'm very proud of this one, by the way. It says, "Seeing God's。
providence in our lives means the goodness of God has become visible。
within experiences that we formerly perceived as only mundane, meaningless,。
dark, difficult, or painful." That's that light switch. And it's amazing when God。
gives us the grace to see what he's been doing in our lives like he did with。
Joseph. And it's incredible news for us as Christians, if you're a Christian here.。
Because it means that we can, not always, I don't think always, but a lot of times。
by God's grace we can see meaning in our suffering, meaning in something that has。
been painful. That's amazing. Now I think on this side of eternity, we're not going。
to understand everything. Not everything is going to be clear or make sense or,。
you know, how God was weaving something great out of it. But I think we're going。
to see, or I know, I'm very confident about this, we're going to see enough to。
know that God is good, that he's powerful, that he's mighty, that he's sovereign,。
and that he's bringing about good purposes in our lives that he has set。
forth to bring forth in our life. Can I get an amen to that? Amen. And then now to。
the question, how do we see God's providence in our lives? Well, we see God's。
providence in our lives by looking backwards. When we're in the midst of it, I'm sure。
Joseph didn't see right when he was throwing in the pit. He's like, "I know this is。
part of God's plan. You know, my brothers are trying to kill me and they throw me。
in here." Or when he's dragged to Egypt, you know, he didn't see in the moment that。
this must be a greater plan of God in some way or form. So we see God's。
providence, God's goodness, you know, in our lives by looking backwards over our。
lives. And I want to share with you one way that I've been able to see God's。
providence, God's goodness in my own life. When I graduated from。
seminary in 2005, I went to Germany. I took a job as a pastor in a local German。
church, and I was now two hours away from my parents. I'd been 10 years in the US,。
so I'm back after 10 years. And after a half, actually it was a little bit longer,。
not less than a year, my father was diagnosed with cancer in 2006. And it was a。
very aggressive, a very rare form of cancer. Now my father was a doctor, so we。
had access to the whole medical community, the best treatments. Even in。
the church I was serving, there was an expert oncologist who was doing some。
cutting-edge stuff. It didn't matter. My father passed away in less than a year。
from the point where he was diagnosed, and passed away in 2007. In 2008, I。
moved to Hong Kong. So this was three years, 2005-2008, I was in Germany. So my。
time there was my first job out of seminary, which was a little bit up and。
down. There was some good stuff, not so good stuff in my first job. Then there was。
a period of my father being, you know, just in excruciating pain and agonizing,。
and us walking as a family with my father. And then there was a period of。
grieving and of loss. So it just seemed like a big mess. I didn't see any, I mean。
in my job, of course, I see a purpose of God. I'm a pastor, right, so I should see。
some purpose in what I'm doing. But I didn't see like that God was somehow。
providentially working in all of this. I didn't see it. And in Hong Kong, I, you。
know, in the church was a youth pastor, it was a sermon. And it just really sparked。
something inside of me where I prayed more over all that had happened. And then。
suddenly, and I don't know quite how to explain it, but God showed me his love。
and grace, his providence of how he was working in this very dark and difficult。
moment and season in my life. Now one thing I hadn't told you was, I actually。
had made a decision I will never move back to Germany. I don't know。
about you, sometimes when you make a certain decision, it's pretty certain. So。
I decided in the US, I was like, this is not my home, I'm living here, I'm never going。
back. But yet I had gone back to Germany, which I never intended to do. I had been。
gone for 10 years. Now if you live abroad, if your family lives abroad, and I know。
some of your families abroad, you don't see them all the time. And so now。
suddenly I was home and I was able to spend time with my parents. Yes, they were。
two hours away, but two hour drive is so much easier than paying a million。
dollars to fly over the ocean. And so I was able to spend time with my father. My。
father had to sell his practice quite quickly. And so in part of that process,。
he wanted to write a letter to his patients because he had a。
close relationship with his patients. And so I helped him write a letter and we。
wrote a letter together talking about the hope of Jesus, even in the face of。
death. And it was such an incredible response, that letter. My father was so。
encouraged. I was able to express how I felt to my father. It's not like always。
in family you talk about how you love each other and care for each other. And I。
was able to tell him, I'm not always that expressive or that good with。
words, especially when it comes to that, you know, but I was really able to。
express my heart to him. And he told me that he delighted in me. And he blessed。
me. He prayed a prayer of blessing over all of his children. Isn't that amazing?。
So even though this was a dark and painful experience, and certainly it。
wasn't a good experience, I don't have to call my father dying of cancer good, but。
nonetheless I can see God providentially working and caring for me and my family.。
And I was able to help. I was there. My siblings were in the US. I'm the only。
child home. I was able to be there in this difficult season. And when I saw。
that, I was just overcome, you know, by God's love and care for me. In a time。
when beforehand I could see nothing. Isn't that amazing? You know, God is so。
good and he loves us and he wants us to know his goodness. He wants us to know。
that even in the moments where we cannot see what he's doing, he is at work on。
your behalf. He is sovereignly at work. Now, again, I just want to get a little。
more practical. So I want to share with you four ways of, you know, how you can。
engage with God. If you're wondering, "God, how are you at work in my life?" You。
know, it's great that there's a Joseph story. It's great that Pastor Tim has a。
story. But what about my life? I want to share with you four different ways of。
how you can sort of engage this topic. The first one is take time to。
assure yourself that God's at work even though you don't always see it, feel it,。
or know it. Now, how do you do that? I think part of that is really meditating。
on who God is. Going in his word, looking at the story of Joseph, looking at。
promises of God. It's letting the Spirit of God speak to you and assure。
you of who God is. That he's a God who loves you, who's for you, who's not。
against you. So that's the first thing. The second one is pray and ask God for his。
revelation to you about what he's doing and how he's at work in your life. You。
know, it's amazing when we ask God things, he actually answers us a lot of。
times. And so we can ask God in prayer. Now, this might not be one prayer. Maybe。
this is like a season of prayer. But we can ask God to reveal to us, to help us。
understand, to help us see. So that's the second thing. The third one is share your。
journey with trusted community and invite them to help you discern. I shared。
it before in an even more darker season of my life that I could not see God's。
love and God's goodness. And I was talking with a friend and he said, "Tim,。
don't you see how much people love you? They're taking you in their home. You。
know, they're letting you be part of their family." I wasn't able to see it。
myself. So we need a lot of times in community, other people that help us to。
see God's goodness. They can speak that over our lives. They can point that out.。
Because we're a lot of times like blind. And then the final one is ask God to。
strengthen you, your resolve, and your trust in times when you are feeling。
overwhelmed. You know, even though I've experienced God's sovereignly work in my。
life and providentially, it doesn't mean that when I'm facing new difficult。
circumstances that there is no anxiousness, that there is no worry, and。
that I'm not overwhelmed by what's going on. And so we can ask God to strengthen。
us, to renew our trust in Him, to fill us with a spirit, to give us the courage and。
grace to face even just whatever is going on. And so what I want to do right。
now is actually want to invite you to just take this moment right now to think。
for yourself, "Which one of these four do I want to do this week?" Like, do I want to。
pray? Do I want to actually try to get in community or catch up with a friend? Do I。
want to read God's Word? Do I need to ask God to give me resolve and strength? So。
I'm just going to give a minute here, and I also want to invite the worship team to。
come up at this point in time, just to prayerfully connect with God around。
these questions, and then I'll pray over us. So let's do this right now. Let's just。
take a moment and just think about how God is inviting us to respond. Jesus, you。
know every single one of our journeys. You know what we have gone through. You。
know what's going on in our lives right now. And Jesus, I thank you that you are。
Lord of our lives, that you sovereignly stand over our lives. I thank you that。
you love us, every single person here. I thank you that you are at work。
and places where we can't see it, where we cannot even dream of, that you could。
possibly be at work in those areas. But Holy Spirit, I just want to invite you。
right now. You know we can talk about all these things, Lord, but I just pray that。
you make yourself known in these difficult places that we've been, where。
we have seen no meaning, no purpose, just suffering, just pain. I pray that you。
would show us, you know, how you have been there for us, how you are redeeming some。
of those difficult things that we are going through, that you make them known。
to us,。
that you reveal your love for us, that you love us, that you love every single。
person here passionately. Thank you, Jesus, that your purpose will be。
accomplished, that it will not be thwarted. It doesn't matter what evil。
others throw at us. Your purpose for us is going to come to pass. And I pray that。
you would raise faith, that you raise faith in us, that you give us a resilient,。
a strong and courageous faith in you, not because of us, but because of who you are。
and because of your Spirit ministering to our hearts. And so I thank you, Lord, for your。
sovereignty, for your providence. I thank you, Jesus, for your grace and your mercy。
over our lives. And I just pray for your revelation now to your church, to your。
people. I pray this in your name, Jesus. Amen. Let's worship church.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
