We thank you for this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says?。
Amen.。
Hey, can we thank our worship team as always?。
So good.。
Have a seat.。
I want to say particularly a warm welcome to everybody at the two o'clock service.。
It's great to have you here together.。
I'm sorry that I'm not with you in person today.。
I'm currently on a plane flying to Singapore where I'm going to be teaching at a conference。
there all week.。
So I couldn't actually physically be with you.。
But you're tuning into this and we're so glad that you're with us.。
And I pray that even though you're watching this on a screen right now, that God will。
speak to you and that you'll hear the Holy Spirit challenging you in the areas that he。
has for you today.。
So it's great that you're with us.。
And welcome to everybody who's here for the first time.。
If you've never been to the Vine before, my name's Andrew.。
I'm one of the pastors.。
And it's grateful.。
We're so grateful.。
Even on a rainy day, a rainy day.。
I am flying off to Singapore this afternoon.。
It's so funny.。
I like checked the weather because I'm like, I need to get away from this crazy rain.。
Like I'm so tired of it.。
I want to go somewhere.。
I'm going to see some sun.。
And I looked at the weather, the place that I'm going to be doing this conference in,。
and it's raining there.。
So praise the Lord Jesus.。
So we continue our series in Ephesus today, in Ephesians, the book.。
And we come to a passage that is very, very important to us as a church, very important。
to me as your pastor here.。
We come to what really is the central passage to, I think, Paul's whole book.。
It's pretty much in the center of his book.。
But it's also the central passage to us and our vision here at the Vine.。
And if you've been coming to the Vine, and there's people in this room that have been。
coming to the Vine for 10, 20, 20 plus years, my prayer today is that you'll hear something。
fresh out of the passage that perhaps you've heard us teach on a few times before.。
But if you're relatively new here at the Vine, and to be honest with you, we've just done。
a survey in the last month or so to ask about who you are.。
And we know that many of you here have only been a part of this church for, say, one year,。
two years, or even less than that.。
So we know that there's a lot of relatively new people.。
You may not have heard us speak about what is the central sort of heartbeat of our vision,。
why we do what we do as a church, and more than that, what our heart is for you.。
If you align to the Vine Church, and if you say that the Vine Church is your home church,。
then everything I'm going to speak about over the next 30 minutes is specifically about。
you.。
It's about you, it's about your life, it's about what the Holy Spirit wants for you,。
because if this is your home church, what I'm sharing is the heart of everything that。
we do here as a church.。
And the catalyst to this heart started back in around about March of 2013.。
It was about nine months or so before I took over here as senior pastor in November of。
2013.。
And in March 2013, I was praying, and if I'm honest with you, I was feeling very overwhelmed,。
I was feeling very nervous, I had imposter syndrome.。
We had two phenomenal founding pastors here at the Vine, John and Tony, that had done。
such an incredible job of birthing and growing a church.。
And I was feeling, if I'm honest, the weight of picking up at a relatively young age at。
the time, I was relatively younger at the time, picking up a large church and trying。
to lead it off the back of two gentlemen that had led it so beautifully and so wonderfully.。
So in all of those insecurities and that kind of sense of pressure, I went to God and I。
was just praying, I was like, "God, look, I just want to understand your heart for these。
people in the season that's ahead.。
Because if I can understand your heart for them, then I think I can kind of get over。
myself and my inadequacies that I'm sensing and lean into what your heart is for these。
people."。
And as I was praying that, I heard God speak and He spoke, perhaps what I would say is。
the clearest He's ever spoken to me.。
It would probably be a lie to tell you that I've heard the audible voice of God.。
I don't know what the audible voice of God is.。
But this was probably one of the times in my life where I've heard Him speak into my。
soul.。
His word just kind of hit me deeply in who I am.。
Here's what He said, it was very simple.。
He said, "Andrew, I don't want you to grow a big church, I want you to grow big people."。
And that shift changed everything for me.。
Because I was so anxious about taking on a large institution, a large church, and having。
to maybe grow that church even bigger.。
And God shifted it and He said, "Andrew, forget about the size of things, forget about the。
institution of it.。
What I want you to focus on is every single individual and my desire for them to grow。
in their relationship with me.。
I want you not to grow a big church, not that there's anything wrong with large churches."。
Again, the Vine over our three services is a relatively large church.。
But I don't want you to focus on trying to grow an institution, I want you to grow people.。
And I have to tell you, that resonated so deeply in me because I sense that that's my。
passion.。
That's everything that I want.。
I want you, and you've heard us say this at the Vine, if you've been coming for any period。
of time, you've probably heard this before.。
Whether you're here for two weeks, for two months, for two years, for two decades, I。
want you to grow in Christ Jesus.。
I want you to get to the end of a week and feel like because of your connection to the。
people in this room, because you feel like you're a part of a gathered community in Hong。
Kong, that you feel like you know Jesus more, you're deeper in connection with Him, you're。
walking more faithfully, you have a boldness to share the gospel like you've never had。
before, you have a mindset to understand justice and the vulnerable and the marginalized and。
wanting to make a difference, that you're looking at your workplace and the sphere of。
influence that Christ has planted you in, and you're saying, "How can I use the gifts。
and the talents and the spiritual things that God has given me to work out in the very place。
that I am?"。
Because you've heard this before, church is not 90 minutes on a Sunday, church is the。
gathered group of people wherever that might happen.。
That happens in the workplace.。
It happens in schools and universities.。
It happens with entrepreneurs.。
It happens in families.。
It happens in any place that someone who professes the name of Jesus is rooted and present, Jesus。
is there and they can bring heaven to earth in that place.。
And if there's anything that drives the heartbeat of the vine, it is that.。
We love gathering together in these 90 minutes on a Sunday, but this is not the fullness。
of what church is about.。
Church actually comes more alive when you wake up on a Monday and you get dressed and。
you go into your workplace and you spend the majority of your time with people who don't。
know Jesus.。
I envy you.。
I spend most of my time with Christians.。
And I have to tell you, no, I won't go there.。
You get to spend most of your time with people who don't believe, and what a beautiful, wonderful。
thing that is.。
So our vision here at the Vine is simply this, growing big people.。
Three words, that's it.。
Very easy for everybody to remember, growing big people.。
That's our desire, is that you would mature in your faith and that you would be so infused。
with the gospel, with understanding what that means through the life, death and resurrection。
of Jesus, through the birthing of the church and through the wonder of what it is to live。
reconciled with him, but also then to be in the ministry of reconciliation for others。
in the world that you're longing to grow and mature and deepen that relationship more and。
more as you go through life.。
For me, that's what this is all about.。
And I want you to hear this, we honestly believe here at the Vine that the local church is。
the hope of the world, the local church.。
And again, by that, I don't mean a building or an institution or an organization.。
I don't even mean services.。
I mean you and me.。
I mean our relationships.。
I mean community.。
I mean the gathered group of God's people together.。
That is the hope of the world.。
It's the hope of the world because God has always chosen in redemptive history, right。
from the beginning of all things, from Genesis chapter four and then the calling of Abraham。
and the formation of Israel from Genesis chapter 12.。
What it's all been about is that God has said, "I'm going to reveal my character, my nature,。
my truth, my heart, my love through my gathered people."。
I mean that's what Israel was all about in the Old Testament.。
And that's why God gathers them at Mount Sinai and pours out his heart to them in the law。
because he wants them to be this physical representation of his character.。
That's what the gathered church is about.。
It's why Jesus told them to stay in the upper room until he pours out his spirit so that。
they could be filled with that law that is no longer on a tablet of stone, but is now。
written on the softness of their hearts by the spirit of Christ, the same spirit that。
raised Jesus from the dead, now given to them the birthing of the church so that they could。
then go out and represent the character and the heart and the passion and the saving grace。
of Christ Jesus to the world.。
That's what it's always been about.。
So if you want to know what the answer is to some of the greatest challenges that we're。
seeing in the world today, it is you and it is me, it is us, the church, the people of。
Christ.。
And see this is really important.。
The reason why our vision of growing big people is really important is because 91% of people。
in Hong Kong do not know Jesus.。
You know that?。
That's the latest statistic.。
91% of people in our city do not know Jesus, which means we have an awesome responsibility。
and an incredibly exciting...。
What other city would you want to live in than that?。
A city that desperately needs the very thing that sits in your heart, the very thing that。
has captured your life, the very thing that has transformed you and saved you and set。
you free, the very thing that wakes you up in the morning with your heart beating faster。
to say, "I'm so grateful that I know Christ."。
91% of the people in our city do not have that experience, but they could through the。
church, not by trying to get everybody in here, but by trying to release all of us out。
there.。
That's the river model vision here at The Vine.。
That's why we're growing big people, but we have this idea of the river model where all。
of us has a spirit influence that we're rooted in, where we get to live out the beauty and。
the wonder of the things that we talk about here on a Sunday.。
And that's important because what Christ wants for His church is that it would be His hands。
and feet in every aspect of society, in every part.。
And in this room right now and over our three services, even in the two o'clock, you represent。
the beauty and the wonder of some aspect of Hong Kong society.。
And what a powerful thing it is to think that the church is in the law firms, that the church。
is in the governments, in the corridors of power, that the church is in the police force,。
that the church is in our universities and education institutions, that the church is。
almost everywhere in our society, hopefully bringing the love of Christ to that place.。
See, the reason why this is important as well, the reason why we want to grow big people。
here is because a mature church is not easily shaken.。
And I tell you what, the world is shaking right now.。
With all of the economic challenges and the political challenges around the world, the。
world is more in war today than it has been five years ago, ten years ago.。
The world is more at war, not just physically and violently as we see around in various。
different conflicts, but at war culturally with each other.。
It's never been more like that than ever right now.。
And in the midst of that, wouldn't it be amazing if there was a presence of a group of people。
who, despite the fact that everything else was shaking and everything else seems scary。
and overwhelming, there was a group of people who were rooted in something, grounded in。
something that was so sure and so strong to them, that despite the fact that they may。
also feel a bit of fear at times, that they may also sense that there is this change that's。
happening.。
They could say, "There is a rootedness that we can have, and I am not afraid because my。
hope is not here.。
My hope is in Christ.。
And because my hope is in Christ, I have salvation.。
I have a solid rock on which I'm building my life, and everything else can shake, but。
there is hope."。
I tell you, when you're living in a culture and a society and a city that is shaking like。
Hong Kong's is, people are looking for those who are secure.。
And they're thinking maybe that security is found in money.。
And when the economy shakes, everybody gets overwhelmed and fearful.。
Or maybe that security is found in some relationship.。
If I could just get married or date somebody or find the hot girl that I've been looking。
for or the stable guy that I want, we think that's where our security will come.。
And the church has the opportunity to stand up in the midst of all of those conversations。
and say that there's only one place where true security comes, and that's outside of。
yourself in the one who's the same yesterday, today, and forever.。
Which is why, when we're growing big people here at the Vine, we're doing it because a。
mature church can offer an alternative vision of life.。
I tell you what, in the conversations that I have, I know I just told you that I spend。
most of my time with Christians, which I do.。
But in the conversations I have with my non-Christian friends and the non-Christian community that。
I have, I constantly hear this communication.。
It's basically, "I wonder if there's another way to live because the system is not working。
for us right now."。
I tell you what, post-modernism has failed this world.。
It had this great hope when it started, but it's failed people, and they've realized that.。
Modernism, materialism failed us.。
Actually the extreme polarizations of elements of culture, extreme liberalism is failing.。
Extreme conservatism, the right-wing side of things, which has led to, in history, some。
really bad things, is failing.。
And so in the midst of that, people are looking for an alternative way of life.。
They are wanting, literally, to be awoken to the reality that there is another way to。
live that can bring hope and life and charity and kindness and goodness and actually see。
the world come together more than to be driven apart like it seems at the moment.。
And people are looking for where that alternative life is.。
And if the church remains silent, people are going to look over our heads to something。
else.。
And as we begin to speak up and as we begin to mature, as we begin to grow in our relationship。
with Christ, we begin to hold forth and hold fast the Word of God in the world.。
We begin to say, "This is a new way to live.。
This is a way that you can know peace where, even though the world might be going crazy,。
there's a solidness to shalom, to peace, to reconciliation that you can know right here。
and right now."。
Could you imagine Hong Kong as a city who, in this shaking time, would look out to a。
church that was so rooted in its maturity in Christ that people were like, "I want to。
be a part of that."。
That's our vision.。
I mean, that's really what Growing Big People is all about.。
I think God is looking for that kind of church.。
And I'm not saying that the Vine is that kind of church.。
I'm saying that's the cool, that's the goal, that's the challenge that Christ has placed。
upon us as a community here.。
I think this is essentially the kind of church that God is looking for.。
Let me read this to you.。
Filled with people who are confident in what they believe, mature in their experience of。
the kingdom and the works of God, literate in their understanding of His Word and its。
narrative, experienced in their healing and their restoration, skilled in their advocacy。
for justice, and planted with hope in the brokenness of the world.。
That's a church I want to be a part of.。
And again, by church, don't think Vine, institution.。
Think a group of people who believe this and have dedicated sacrificially their life to。
living out this.。
I think that's what Christ died for.。
I think Christ did not die for an immature church.。
Christ died for this kind of community.。
And my heart, our heart as a leadership here at the Vine, if you call the Vine your home。
community, this is what we're hoping to go towards.。
This is the goal that we're trying to attain to.。
This is what we're trying to move together in.。
And as we mature individually, we mature communally.。
And I believe we take steps towards becoming a church like this that could truly, truly。
change that statistic from 91% who don't know Jesus to whatever percent, hopefully, we can。
get it to where they do.。
Is anyone else excited about that?。
No.。
Okay.。
That's great.。
Now what I want to do is I want to show you how Paul, I think, places so much of what。
I've been talking about with you so far into this passage we're looking at today.。
As we continue our series in Ephesians, we come to Ephesians 4, verses 11 to 16.。
And this is Paul's growing big people moment.。
This is him explaining to his church in Ephesus his heart for them to mature and to grow.。
And not only does he explain the idea of it, he actually maps out a process in these verses。
by which his church could mature more.。
And I love this because what I'm going to do is, after I read it, is I'm going to break。
that down for you.。
I'm actually going to show you the process that Paul provides for his church because。
what Paul is trying to do in Ephesus, we're trying to do here at the Vine.。
It is to grow a church of mature believers for a purpose of trying to change the world.。
And that was definitely Paul's heart as a pastor.。
It's our heart here.。
So let me read this to you from Ephesians 4, starting in verse 11.。
It was he who gave some to be apostles, some to be prophets, some to be evangelists, some。
to be pastors, and some to be teachers, to prepare God's people for works of service,。
so that the body of Christ may be built up in unity, built up until we reach unity in。
the faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God, and we become mature, attaining to。
the whole measure of the fullness of Christ.。
Then we will no longer be infants tossed back and forth by the waves and blown here and。
there by every wind of teaching and by the cunningness and craftiness of people in their。
deceitful scheming.。
No, instead, speaking the truth in love.。
We will in all things grow up into Him who is the head, that is, Christ.。
From Him the whole body, joined and held together by every supporting ligament, grows and builds。
itself up in love as each part does its work.。
Paul has such a passion for his church in this moment because he wants them to see something。
that I think he felt they were failing to see up until this point.。
He's just spent three chapters talking about what Christ has done in His grace in their。
lives, and we've unpacked that in this series so far.。
But here in chapter four, he starts by saying, "I want you to live a life that is worthy。
of the calling you've received."。
And Susanna beautifully unpacked that for us last week as she challenged us to understand。
how we can walk in kindness and humility and goodness towards one another.。
Now Paul's going to take this idea of what it is to live a life worthy of the calling。
you've received and show you how that works in the church, how there is this process of。
living a life that's truly worthy of that calling through maturity in Him.。
And so I want to map this out for you.。
The first thing he does is he says, "Look, there's three things that are central to the。
idea of maturing in a church.。
Any church that is going to seek to mature people, you need to understand that God has。
created three specific elements that work for that.。
The first he talks about, which we've come in the modern church to call the five-fold。
ministry gifts.。
He just speaks about five types of giftings that have been placed in the church to help。
that church to grow.。
He says apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors, teachers.。
These are not professional employees.。
These are people within the church themselves that are walking and ministering and living。
in certain gifts that are for the maturity of the church itself.。
Now we don't have time today to unpack what those five different things are and the different。
nuances of each of them.。
It suffice to say that God has taken care of the community of His church by gifting。
it with such a way that there is diversity, there is different ideas of those gifts, they。
bring different things to the table, but seen together in their totality, they're designed。
to help the church to grow.。
They're designed to help the church to mature and to deepen in their faith.。
And so every church should be thinking, how do we have these five things at work amongst。
us?。
Again, they're not offices or they're not like titles.。
These are gifts that are at work amongst us so that we might be able to do something.。
And I'll explain what that do something is in a moment.。
But notice how Paul writes it.。
He says, "God has given some to be apostles, some to be prophets, some to be…"。
He doesn't say God is called.。
He doesn't say God is made.。
He says God has given these gifts.。
So the focus is not on the person.。
Look at me.。
The focus is on God gifting.。
In other words, it is a movement of His grace into a church community so that church community。
can grow.。
And because it's a gift, it's given in order to achieve and accomplish something.。
And I'm going to explain about that in just a moment.。
So the first element is there is these gifts that God has placed amongst us.。
The second element comes out in verse 15.。
He says, "Now speaking the truth in love."。
So Paul says not only is it important to have these five common gifts at work in your body。
to make it mature, you also need to be speaking the truth in love.。
I love this.。
Paul's saying a mature church is a church that doesn't shy away from the absolute truth。
of God, the absolute truth of Scripture, the absolute truth of the gospel and the life,。
death, and resurrection of Jesus.。
As a church embeds itself in the truth and shares that truth, speaks that truth, encourages。
that truth amongst them, it then grows and it matures.。
I love this.。
Speaking the truth.。
Now this is really important because I think in the world today, particularly in our postmodern。
context, there's been an attack on the idea of absolute truth.。
And instead it's all about subjective truth or relative truth.。
And whatever that subjective truth or relative truth is for you, you should embrace that.。
But it will be different for the subjective or relative truth for someone else.。
And you can't judge anybody else's subjective truth.。
And so what we've got now is a culture, even in our time right now, where you'll hear this。
phrase a lot, "Own your truth."。
Just own your truth.。
It's good for you to own your truth, which basically means you can believe whatever you。
want.。
I'm going to believe whatever I want and never the two shall meet.。
And I tell you what, us Christians, we've embraced this.。
I'm being honest.。
We've embraced this.。
This is how I think we so often are when we're around those that don't know Jesus.。
We're like, "Well, I've got my faith and I want to respect their space.。
And I have my faith.。
I have my truth.。
They have their truth.。
And we're just going to like that."。
I want you to know something really clearly.。
You don't have my truth.。
You have the truth.。
Come on, church.。
You don't have just, "This is my truth and that's something else over there."。
You have the absolute truth.。
The life, death, and resurrection of Jesus is an absolute truth.。
And Paul's saying the church matures when it doesn't shy away from the reality that。
there is an absolute truth.。
That there is something that the world revolves around.。
That there is a creator who's created this world and poured his heart and life into it。
and wants to have relationship with the people that he's created.。
When a church embraces and is willing to speak up for the absolute truth of Scripture, Paul。
says the church grows.。
It matures.。
The people there mature.。
And it's a wonderful thing.。
Notice this though.。
He qualifies it by saying, "In love."。
Which is another problem because the church over history hasn't done that.。
They've taught the absolute truth, but sometimes not in love.。
From a posture of judgment.。
From a posture of finger pointing.。
From a posture of, "You're not as good as us and you need to get better, so hear this。
truth."。
Paul says, "No, we don't shy away from the absolute truth that we're rooted in as Christians,。
but we do it, we share it, we speak it in love with one another and with those out there."。
It's done from a place of love.。
And remember, he's just prayed a prayer to them at the end of chapter three where his。
pastoral prayer was all about, "I want you to be changed inside through your knowledge。
of the love of God.。
I want you to know the height and the depth and the width and the length of that love.。
And I want that love to so transform you that it will surpass your understanding and it。
will fill you with the fullness of God."。
He's just prayed passionately that they would know love.。
Then he says, "Now speak the truth out of the overflow of the love that's in you."。
When you share the absolute truth of the gospel with someone from a place of love, you share。
it not from a idea of, "I need to judge this person because their behavior is bad."。
You share it from, "Man, I so long for this person to flourish and grow and be just like。
me, transformed."。
Because could you imagine the lawyer they could be if they actually believed in Christ?。
You're looking at it from a completely different perspective because you want the person to。
grow and flourish and be the best that they can be.。
And your heart's somewhat broken that they're not living in the way that God has created。
them to be.。
But you're not judging them.。
You're sharing the truth in a place of love.。
Paul says, "When that happens, you have a mature church.。
An immature church shies away from absolute truth."。
And I know that's not a popular thing to say, so I'm going to say it again.。
An immature church shies away from absolute truth.。
But a mature church is willing to stand on the truth of Scripture, but do so in love.。
The third thing he says is he says, "You've got to understand that Christ is the head。
of the church and we are his body."。
So he shares about there's an authority structure in the church.。
Not an authority structure that's human made, an authority structure that comes with Christ。
as the head.。
But the authority is in him.。
He said this at the beginning in Ephesians chapter 1.。
He said, "The will of God is that all things on heaven and earth would come under one person,。
that is Christ."。
So Christ is the ultimate authority, he says, but he gets, "We are his body."。
We get to be his body.。
And this is a beautiful thing because as the body of Christ, we get to be different parts.。
Our differences are a good thing.。
Our backgrounds and our talents and our gifts that are different from one another, they're。
all good things.。
As we bring them together in this one body, we build each other up.。
It's a beautiful thing.。
We grow in Christ.。
We mature, he's basically saying.。
And so this idea of being a body means not all of us are the head, not all of us are。
the hand, not all of us are the feet.。
Some of us are this, some of us are that.。
Some of us are even the spleen.。
Nobody wants to be the spleen, but some of us in this room, you're the spleen.。
That's the metaphor he uses in 1 Corinthians 12.。
We're all different parts of the body, but together we make up this wonderful thing.。
So Paul is saying a maturing church happens because there are servants that are there。
to serve, there's revelation that is heard amongst us, and there is a community in which。
is developing in that space.。
So servant-hearted leadership, revelation of God's truth, and a community of people。
working together is part of the journey of maturing the church.。
And Paul's saying if those three things are not at work, you will fail to see a maturing。
church.。
And if those three things are not at work in your life, you will probably fail to mature。
yourself in the way that Christ would want you to mature.。
Those three things are non-negotiables.。
Helping so far?。
Yes.。
Thanks, Ellison.。
Actually, I just heard everybody at the two say yes.。
Thanks, two.。
I appreciate you.。
All right.。
Now, look what happens next.。
So he's just said, look, there's three elements.。
He said these three elements work towards one goal.。
Notice this.。
He says, "So that they would prepare God's people for works of service."。
Ah, I love that.。
Notice he doesn't say, "So that they would prepare God's people to come to church on。
Sunday."。
He doesn't say that they'll prepare God's people to feel better about themselves.。
He says, "These things prepare God's people for what he describes works of service."。
So Paul's vision for a maturing church is not a church that's passive, a church that's。
active.。
His vision for people that are a part of a church is not that they would come in and。
only receive, but that they would be actively doing and giving and working out there somewhere。
in the world.。
His vision for a church that's maturing is not a church that's filled with people who。
are just here to consume, but a church that's filled with people that are dying to contribute.。
Because all of these things, this idea of servant leadership, revelation, and community,。
they're all working towards preparing God's people for the works that God has for them。
to do.。
The three things on this side are the things that we should be supplying to you here at。
the Vine as your leadership, and how you should be supplying to one another, but it's to prepare。
you to go and do something.。
I think one way of thinking about it is this, the servants in the church are to prepare。
the church so that the church could be the servants to the world.。
Come on church, do you follow that?。
So the servant leadership within the church is to prepare the church to be the servant。
leaders of the world.。
So you could be in your marketplace situation, in the law firm, in the school, in the university,。
wherever it is, the family, whatever, and you're there going, "How do I do this for。
the people around me?。
How do I serve?。
How do I share the gospel?。
How do I live out the character and the nature of Christ to the people around me?。
Because I have been equipped by my community together to be a work of service to the community。
I'm planted in.。
But my sphere of influence, I'm the pastor to that sphere of influence," you should be。
thinking.。
"I'm God's hands and feet to that place, and I can make a difference because of my community。
of faith and how we're serving one another and working together.。
We can be living out acts of service wherever it is that you're planted."。
I think that's a glorious vision for church.。
It's not about like, "Hey, let's all come in and contribute everything here," although。
we do need you to contribute things here, right?。
We need volunteers.。
We need our helpers.。
We need the worship team.。
Everything that you see pretty much on a Sunday, most of it is run by volunteers.。
Yeah, we need the help here, but really the heart that Paul has for the church is that。
it would be so equipped for the work that it has to do out there.。
And that should inspire you.。
That should fill you with a hunger to want to mature so that you can be a greater representation。
of Christ's hands and feet wherever it is that you might find yourself.。
So Paul says all of this stuff, what it does as we prepare our works of service is that。
it brings unity together.。
We are built up, as the church says, in unity.。
I love that.。
In other words, everybody here, if we were actually living out the call of the gospel。
in whatever sphere of influence we are, our role amongst each other should be to cheer。
each other on.。
It should be to say, "Wow, did you hear what this person did in the law firm the other。
week?。
It was amazing.。
They were able to do this because they had this mindset of what justice was and the heart。
of God and justice, and they did that.。
We want to cheer you on.。
We want to say, 'That was awesome.。
That's great.'"。
Or, "Hey, do you know that this person who's the CEO of this massive company, they're really。
struggling right now.。
They're under a lot of pressure.。
We need to gather around as a church and pray for them and stand with them so that they。
can be all that Christ has called them to be in that place in this season."。
Or, "Hey, you know this single mother who's having to raise two kids and she's struggling。
to pay rent every week?。
Hey, come on.。
We should be gathering around and building unity together to help her and provide for。
her and do whatever we can to make sure she's the best mom to those kids that she could。
possibly be."。
Could you imagine a church who's doing all of this stuff so that they could see unity。
be built up amongst themselves?。
That's something people would want to be a part of.。
And this unity, Paul says, he said, "We build up this unity in two very specific things."。
He said, "The unity is found in the faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God."。
Faith and the knowledge of the Son of God.。
This is what happens when unity is at work amongst us.。
We have unity in faith and unity in knowledge.。
Paul often brings faith and knowledge together when he's teaching.。
And he does so because it's really important for him because these two things are slightly。
different emphasis for Paul.。
Faith for Paul spoke mostly about our experience with God.。
It spoke about our beliefs and our promises, our understanding the promises of God and。
our trust in Him.。
The faith element was the bits where we don't understand, where we need faith.。
Maybe we haven't got it all worked out in our mind so we have this faith to believe。
or faith to trust or faith to embrace the promises of God, even though perhaps we don't。
fully understand them at times or maybe we haven't felt them at times.。
We have this faith in us, he says, and we have this unity together in faith in the Son。
of God.。
But then he also says, "But it's also a knowledge."。
It's not all just about faith.。
It's also about being rooted in understanding, having wisdom, having good doctrine, understanding。
theology, understanding the Scriptures.。
This side is also important, Paul is saying.。
Our unity, if you're a maturing church, our unity if you're a maturing Christian, is that。
you have feet in both of those camps, that you have a balance between your faith in the。
Son of God and you have a balance with your understanding, your knowledge of the Son of。
God.。
And he's like, you need to get both of those things in balance because if one of those。
things dominates more over the other, then you're going to be an immature church that's。
likely to be shaken by every whim of teaching that's going to come your way.。
And we all know this, right?。
We all know those churches or those experiences where it's all built on just some spiritual。
dramatic experience, and yet it seems to lack the rootedness of Scripture.。
And perhaps we've been in other churches at times where it's amazing the doctrinal understanding。
and teaching and yet it seems like it's dead, that it's not alive, that there's no spirit。
involved.。
And Paul's trying to teach the church where our unity comes, our maturity comes.。
When we take both of those things and we embrace them and walk into them and find balance in。
our lives, here at the Vine we put it this way, we want you to be a spiritually intelligent。
Christian.。
We want you to be so filled with the Spirit that you have those experiences of Christ.。
You're gifted by the Spirit.。
You know that the same Spirit in you is the one that raised Jesus from the dead.。
You're praying for the sick.。
You're looking for miracles.。
You're expecting for that.。
We want that in you.。
But we also want you to know your Word.。
We want you to be rooted in Scripture.。
We want you to understand theology.。
We want you to know how the Bible works.。
We want you to stand on that absolute truth and have that.。
We want you to have both of those things at work in your life.。
That's maturity, Paul says.。
That's what it is to grow.。
Are you still with me?。
So all of this reaches to the end of the point where he says this, and so we would become。
mature, and notice how he defines maturity, "attaining to the whole measure of the fullness。
of God."。
The whole measure of the fullness...。
Yeah, that's a good slide to take a photo of.。
Yep, everybody's taking a photo of that.。
That's nice, isn't it?。
Although, ha, ha, ha, ha, there's one more bit, so sorry.。
You're going to have to take a photo again in a few minutes' time.。
But I want you to see, he's saying we become mature, "attaining to the whole measure of。
the fullness of Christ."。
Paul's vision is that you wouldn't miss out on anything that Christ has for you and for。
the church.。
The fullness of Christ should be found in you and found in the church.。
He's basically saying, look, Christ did not die so that you received a portion of His。
love.。
Christ didn't die so that you would receive a portion of reconciliation, a portion of restoration.。
Paul's like, no, a mature church and a mature person in Christ is someone who understands。
that they are receiving the whole measure of the fullness of Christ.。
We don't do the vines so that you would get a half measure.。
I mean, if that was our focus, then we may as well just wrap up and go home.。
We do this because we want you to sense the wholeness of His love, the wholeness of restoration,。
the wholeness of your healing, whatever brokenness that you're with, whatever addiction you're。
struggling with, whatever overwhelming fear is in your workplace, whatever it is, divorce。
that you're struggling with in your marriage, a breakdown in a relationship, whatever it。
is, we want the wholeness of Christ for you in those areas so that you would feel fully。
alive in Him, forgiven, redeemed, restored, growing and making a difference so that you。
would have a limp like Jacob did, who wrestled with God because of the hard things and God。
touched him and he walked away touched by the work of God and able to reveal the beauty。
of His brokenness to those ahead and to point people towards the one who healed him.。
And I pray that that is us, that that is what it means to be church.。
That's growing big people.。
And the question you've got to wrestle with here is when you see Paul map out, I mean,。
is that not a beautiful process that he's mapped out?。
When you see Paul map out a process like that, here's the question we think.。
We think that Paul's being mean about people who are infants in Jesus.。
We could read that and think Paul's got a problem with people who are just coming to。
Jesus or don't know much about Jesus.。
And if that's you here in this room, maybe you're new to faith or maybe you're wrestling。
with faith, you're not sure, I want you to hear this.。
That is not what Paul is saying.。
He is not coming against those who are infants in the faith.。
Equally, there are people who are mature in Christ Jesus who think because they've been。
Christians for 30, 40 years that they don't have much more to learn about Christ.。
He's coming for those people actually.。
And he's saying both whether you're an infant in Christ or whether you think you're mature。
and you've got it all sorted out.。
He's basically saying if you just stay stagnant where you're at, that's not what Christ wants.。
He wants a maturing church, a maturing Christian.。
And so if you're an infant, that's absolutely fine.。
Your heart though should be, I want to learn, I want to grow, I want to deepen, I want to。
get mature.。
And if you are a "mature" Christian, you should be challenging yourself and saying, have I。
plateaued, have I thought in arrogance that I know it all?。
Is there more for me to know of Christ?。
Absolutely there is.。
And so whether infant or mature, the heart Paul is saying is that you have a starting。
point right in this process right now.。
Whether you've been a Christian two weeks or two minutes or 20, 30, 40 years, there's。
a starting point for you and that's the final part of the slide.。
You can now take a photo of the slide if you want to.。
There is the starting point that we all have.。
And that starting point is what you're being invited into today.。
If this is your home church, I hope what I've shared with you today out of Paul's vision,。
remember, this is not actually the Vine's vision as in like we've come up with something。
special.。
Our vision is that vision and that vision is Paul's vision for his church, okay?。
This is Paul mapping out what maturity in the church looks like, but that is what we。
align ourselves and that's what we mean when we say we're here to grow big people.。
That's what we're talking about.。
That's everything we do strategically.。
We want that process to be at work in our ministries and how we do things.。
We want that process to be at work in your life and everything you experience.。
We'd love that process to be at work outside the four walls of a 90-minute Sunday service.。
That's our heart and our passion.。
The question you've got to ask yourself is where are you starting on your ever going。
maturity journey today?。
And so for some of you in this room, your starting point might be like, "You know what?。
I need to understand more about the truth.。
You know what, I've shied away a little bit from God's absolute truth.。
Maybe I've been a bit scared about it.。
I need to actually embrace it.。
I need to read my scriptures a bit more.。
I need to talk to somebody about that.。
I need to understand what are the foundations of gospel.。
I need to understand what is doctrine.。
I don't even know what doctrine is or theology.。
I need someone to walk with me.。
Maybe it's to sign up for a BSF class or do a manna class here at the Vine where we do。
Bible teaching with you.。
It could be a whole variety of different things, but you're kind of saying, "That's my starting。
point."。
Or maybe for some of you it's to get into a community group.。
You realize that you've been anonymous here too long and you've been wondering why it。
is that maybe you're not growing as much as you thought.。
Let me tell you this, you will grow far more with eight to nine to ten people around your。
life who know your story and you know their story than you will from attending a lifetime's。
worth of 90 minutes on a Sunday.。
That's where true discipleship takes place.。
Not here, as much as we love what we're doing here.。
I know I've said that a few times today, but we love this, but that's actually not the。
fullness of your discipleship.。
Your discipleship will go to the next level when you commit your life to communing with。
people.。
So, CGs, community groups, massive.。
Maybe that's your starting point here today.。
Maybe your starting point is to say, "Hey, look, I want to be equipped more for works。
of service.。
I realize I've become stagnant.。
I realize that I basically just live my faith on a Sunday and I don't live my faith much。
outwards.。
I realize that God has gifted me, but I'm not really using those gifts."。
You're thinking, "I want to actually think about what it means for me to serve the city。
of Hong Kong, to serve my bank, to serve that law firm, that educational institution, whatever。
it might be, serve my family.。
I want to learn more about that.。
That's my starting point."。
Or maybe for some of you, it's this faith in the knowledge.。
"I want to get that balance better in my life.。
I've got a little bit too much of the experience.。
I feel like I'm lacking."。
Or, "I feel like I've got too much of this, but I want to learn what are the gifts of。
the Spirit like.。
I want to have somebody pray for me to receive some of the gifts.。
I want to do more of that."。
And so, maybe it's like you want to get that balance of faith and knowledge better in your。
life.。
I don't know what it is for you, but my challenge is, if this is your church, this is what we're。
about.。
And I said this at the Aniphothene.。
I want to say this again, and I'm saying it to you at the two as well.。
And I'm not joking this.。
This is everything that the Vine is about.。
So if this doesn't excite you, or if this is not what you want, I totally respect that,。
and I would say, "Go check out some other churches."。
And I mean that because this is who we are, and this is what we're going to pour our time。
and energy and leadership into.。
This is what.。
And if you align with this, every Sunday when you come in, my heart and my prayer is that。
you'll feel like you're growing.。
You'll feel like you're maturing.。
You'll feel like you're being challenged.。
You'll feel like the truth is being spoken in love.。
You'll feel all of those things, and that will help you to grow.。
And if you align with that, then the starting point is your question today.。
How am I starting in that journey?。
And I pray that this excites you as much as it excites me.。
And this is what's going to continue to be at the forefront of us as we hold forth and。
fast to the Word of God amongst us.。
Can I pray for us?。
Why don't you stand with me, and I'll pray for you.。
I hope people come back next week, though.。
I did kind of mean that, but hopefully you resonate with what we're talking about.。
Things you regret later.。
Okay.。
Father, we just are so grateful that we are here together.。
And I wonder if this is resonating with you.。
This is your home church.。
Can I just encourage you to just put your hands out as I pray, and I want to just commission。
you into the things that we're talking about.。
And if you're visiting from another church or somewhere else, you can receive, of course,。
receive this as well for whatever context Christ has planted you into.。
So as your hands are open, Father, we thank you that you called the vine to grow big people.。
Thank you, Lord, that each person here represents a wonderful, created human being that you。
love so much, that the image of God is placed within, and that you're wanting to see flourish.。
Father, I thank you that we have amazing doctors and nurses and teachers and educational professors.。
We have entrepreneurs.。
We have people in politicians, people in the government, police.。
Lord, we have all aspects of societies represented across our services.。
Lord, that is such a beautiful thing.。
Thank you.。
Thank you, Lord, that you've blessed this community with variety and diversity.。
Lord, I want to pray that there will be a unity felt amongst us as you build us up for。
works of service.。
Lord, I want to pray for each person here who's saying the vine is their home church.。
I want to pray that this starting point that you're putting on their spirit right now would。
be their next step in deepening their journey with us as a community of faith.。
More than that, deepening their own journey in relationship with you, Lord.。
I pray that we as a church will be able to serve that next step as best as we can, knowing。
that we won't always get it right and that we'll make mistakes along the way.。
Lord, I pray that more than that, the people of this room would love each other, would。
love and encourage and cheer each other on deeply in the spirits of influence and the。
works of service that they are doing.。
Lord, I want to pray that there would be such unity at the vine between experience of you,。
the heart and the faith and the works of the spirit and the power that there is in the。
spirit as well as the depth of your word and the roots of doctrine and good theology.。
And Lord, I pray that those two things would come together in a beautiful way, Lord, that。
we would find ourselves deeper in knowledge and in faith of the Son of God.。
And Lord, I pray for that whole measure, the whole measure of the whole measure of the。
whole measure of the fullness of Christ over each person.。
And so Lord, today as we respond in worship, Lord, I want to just pray, maybe just you。
take the time as we worship now to think about what is my next step?。
What is my starting point?。
And maybe after the service you want to come forward and have someone pray for you.。
Maybe for some of you that's the foster care situation we were talking about earlier.。
You know, those next steps might be things that you're going to do, making room for God。
by serving the poor and the vulnerable, the marginalized of our city.。
Maybe some of you want to do that as a next step.。
It might be a lot of different things, but take the time to hear from the Holy Spirit.。
And if you'd like prayer, we're going to have a team that will pray for you at the end of。
the service around that as well.。
But as we respond, we do so asking Him to mature us and to grow us into big people.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
(gentle music)。
