Amen, awesome.。
All right, so I'm not gonna do that for everybody.。
Don't worry, we're good.。
I know that every time I get into the pulpit。
here at the Vine, I get super excited。
and I often will say to you, I'm so excited today.。
But I am genuinely really excited today。
for what I think the Lord wants to do in us in this moment,。
for what I think He wants to do in the weeks ahead。
as we start a new sermon series here today.。
I wanna teach actually over the next four weeks with you。
on the topic of personal transformation.。
And I'm really excited about this。
because I don't know how you feel。
as you've come into church today, as you've joined us online,。
whether you feel like life is the best。
that it's ever been for you,。
or whether you feel like there's pain and trauma。
and there's some sort of thing。
that's kind of a suffering in your life,。
whether you're feeling great or you're really struggling,。
the weight of Scripture would show us。
that one of the primary functions of the ministry of Jesus。
is to take us from who we are today。
and to move us to become more and more like Him.。
At the very heart of what is the ministry of Jesus,。
both the scriptural ministry,。
but also the ministry of Christ in the world today。
through the power of His presence and His Spirit。
is to take us from the people that we are right now。
and help us to become more a reflection of Him。
in the world around us.。
In other words, God's primary focus of His heart as a Father。
and the Spirit's primary work in your life。
and Jesus's primary focus。
is to help this transformation process happen in you。
so that you can begin to be the very person。
that He longs for you to be.。
And so none of you have come into church today by mistake.。
I believe none of you watching online。
in the overflow in this room right now,。
none of you are here just for an event.。
You are here because there is something in your life。
that the Lord wants to touch, wants to liberate,。
wants to heal, wants to restore.。
There's something in you that He wants to move His Spirit over。
and do such a renewal and a restoration work。
that you would feel like you've become the person。
that you're designed to be.。
If you're anything like me,。
you can recognize that there are some areas in your life。
that you wish were healed, restored, renewed,。
that you wish you were a better person.。
And I believe that over the next four weeks,。
God is gonna drop into your spirit some of the keys,。
some of the ways in which you can grow and transform。
and become that person that He longs to be.。
That's why I'm excited today.。
And this all links back to what we shared with you。
at Vision Sunday here at The Vine in March.。
If you've been coming to The Vine for a while。
at the beginning of March, every year,。
we share a Vision Sunday where we tell you。
about the sense that we have as a leadership。
about God's heart for us as a church community.。
And back then we mentioned。
that we are in an uncharted territory season,。
that the Lord is wanting to move The Vine。
into uncharted territory.。
And what we explained to you about on that first Sunday。
in March is that this is always the call of the Lord。
when He wants to do something significantly new。
amongst His people.。
Uncharted territory is literally territory。
where we have no map, we've never been there before,。
there is no idea or strategy for what it is,。
but God wants to take us from where we are today。
and He wants to place us where we've never been before.。
And when we're in this season of uncharted territory,。
it's an adventure, it's a joy,。
but it's also kind of scary。
because we don't know how to define it.。
We don't know exactly what it's gonna look like,。
we don't know exactly how it's gonna happen。
and what God does in a season of uncharted territory。
is He calls us to faith, He calls us to trust Him.。
Because there isn't a strategy, there aren't resources,。
there isn't the map to know where it is that we're going,。
but we have this sense that He wants to take us there.。
And I feel like for some of you in this room,。
in this journey of personal transformation,。
that resonates with you.。
It's like, you're like, I wanna be different,。
I wanna be better, I wanna be more wise,。
I wanna be more Christ-centered,。
I wanna be more compassionate,。
I wanna have breakthroughs in my work,。
I wanna just be a better human being.。
You're kind of feeling it in your spirit,。
but it's uncharted.。
You're not sure where it's going to go,。
but God say, don't worry, I've got you.。
And I'm gonna come and I'm gonna work in your life。
and gently step by step,。
you're gonna transform and be renewed。
into something truly beautiful.。
And at that Vision Sunday,。
I shared with you a word that the Lord had given me。
whilst I was in the Camino de Santiago in Spain,。
this pilgrimage last year that I did on my sabbatical.。
And as I was walking in Spain,。
God gave me a word for us as a community and as a church.。
I wrote it down here on this very piece of paper.。
And I read this to us back in March,。
but I wanna read it again,。
because this is still the season we're in.。
And as we move to the second half of the year now,。
this is still a thing that resonates on his heart。
for us, so let me read this to us.。
It says this,。
"I am about to move the vine into uncharted territory.。
I desire to take you to places you have never been,。
to stretch you beyond what you're currently comfortable with.。
These are uncharted territories,。
and they are necessary for your faith and my work.。
You do not have the strategy, resources, gifts,。
or wisdom for what is coming.。
That is not the issue.。
All you need to begin is faith and courage."。
Let me just stop there.。
"All you need to begin is not the answer,。
is not how everything's gonna pan out,。
is not how everything's gonna look at the end of it all.。
All you need right now," the Lord is saying,。
"is faith and courage."。
Father, I wanna pray faith and courage。
into the vine community.。
Lord, I wanna pray that you would fill the people。
in this room with a greater faith and courage。
for their personal transformation.。
I wanna pray, Lord,。
that you would put such faith inside of them,。
that every day they would wake up and say,。
"I know that today is gonna be better。
than what's been behind.。
I know that the Lord is with me,。
and if he is with me, who can be against me?"。
Lord, I pray for a release of courage amongst your people.。
In Jesus' name, everyone says.。
So all you need to begin is faith and courage.。
This is about complete trust in me.。
What I will give you, though, is a burden.。
I will give you a new heart.。
I will make you unsatisfied for the here and now.。
I will place my hand upon you。
and stir up the joy of the pursuit of me.。
I'm not calling you to a vision with knowledge。
of all that is ahead.。
No, this is uncharted territory.。
What I am calling you to is a value,。
the value of complete and total surrender,。
a holy dissatisfaction in the way things have been,。
and a passionate longing for the discovery of more.。
And then I wrote in brackets just below it,。
"Preach on this sometime."。
But I love this because that statement there。
is really the summary, if you will,。
of what personal transformation is all about.。
This is how it begins, a holy dissatisfaction。
in how things currently are,。
and a longing and a faith and a courage that there's more,。
that there's more for me, there's more for my future,。
there's more for who I am,。
there's more depths of Christ。
that the Lord wants to open up for me,。
there's more compassion that he wants to place within me.。
I'm not the final product today,。
and God has given me a new heart,。
a new burden to seek and be on my knees。
and to pray and believe that greater will be ahead of me。
what has been behind me.。
And this is the starting point of any journey。
of personal transformation, a burden for change.。
And what I wanna do today and over the next four weeks。
is unpack a little bit about what this burden。
for change in us looks like,。
and some of the keys by which we can take that burden。
and truly live it out in our lives.。
Interestingly, over the last six months,。
I've been praying this exact passage,。
this exact group of God's word over us, for us.。
And as I've been praying it,。
he led me about four months ago。
to the Old Testament book of Ezra.。
Now, I don't know if you've ever read the book of Ezra before。
or if you've ever heard anyone preach。
from the book of Ezra before,。
but the book of Ezra is this significant book。
in the narrative of the Old Testament.。
It happens about sort of three quarters of the way。
through the Old Testament in terms of its chronology,。
but the book of Ezra narrates and chronicles。
a significant time in Israel's history,。
a turning point in their history,。
what you might call an uncharted season in their history.。
It's the time where Israel is released。
from their captivity in exile in Babylon。
and are brought back to their city of Jerusalem,。
the city that had been destroyed。
by the Babylonians some 70 years earlier.。
So the book of Ezra captures for us the moment。
where God's people are released。
and they're able to go back to their city,。
which has been desolated from the attacks 70 years before.。
And one of the things that you see in this book。
is exactly how Israel faces this work。
of rebuilding in their lives.。
And as we're thinking about what it is。
for us to be transformed,。
what does it look for the Lord to come。
and do a rebuilding in us?。
As we start the series,。
I wanna give you that historical context。
so you fully understand what we're teaching into。
in the moment of Israel's history.。
So let me just give you a bit of historical context,。
really important about humans in general,。
but also the nation of Israel.。
About sort of 800, 900 years before the birth of Christ,。
Israel that time was a confederacy of 12 tribes.。
And those 12 tribes were held together by a judge.。
And those judges were raised up。
and the judge could come from any of the 12 tribes in Israel.。
And the judge was anointed to lead the people at that time.。
Now, interestingly, over time,。
God's people decided that they no longer wanted。
to be just a confederacy of 12 tribes,。
they wanted to be a monarchy like other nations around them.。
They looked at some of the other nations。
that were around them at the time。
and they saw kings and queens。
and the power that came from a kingship.。
And so they came to the judge at the time。
who happened to be Samuel.。
And they said to Samuel,。
"We want you not to pass on the judge to the next judge,。
we want you now to anoint a king for us."。
So sure enough, God decides to work through Israel this way.。
And so Israel goes from a confederacy to a monarchy,。
a nation with a king,。
Saul the first king, the second King David.。
Now what happens interestingly,。
is that when you're a confederacy with 12 tribes,。
anybody from one of those 12 tribes could become judge.。
When you become a monarchy,。
monarchy is passed down through bloodline.。
Now, a lot of people in Israel didn't realize。
that that was gonna happen.。
And suddenly they don't like the monarchy thing anymore.。
They don't like the fact that power gets passed down。
through one family's bloodline.。
And in fact, out of the 12 tribes,。
10 of them decide to rebel against the other two。
and actually leave Jerusalem。
where they were all based at this time and go north.。
Go north to the area of like the West Bank。
as we understand it today,。
and parts of Southern Lebanon, that sort of area of land.。
The 10 tribes go there and they establish a new nation。
with a new monarchy of the bloodline they wanted.。
Now, here's the confusing thing.。
When the 10 go north, they decide to rename themselves Israel。
which is really not helpful for us。
when we're reading the Bible。
because there's the Israel of original,。
but now there's this new Israel。
of the 10 tribes that have gone north.。
Now, two of the tribes remain south in Jerusalem,。
Benjamin and Judah, and they rename themselves Judah.。
So now you've got Israel and you've got Judah.。
And if you're reading the books of like Nehemiah and Ezra。
and Zachariah, Jeremiah, these kinds of books,。
when they mention Israel, when they mention Judah,。
that's what they're talking about,。
the 10 tribes north or the two tribes south.。
Making sense so far?。
Okay, now here's what happens in 722 BC.。
Assyria comes and attacks the 10 tribes that had gone north.。
Assyria comes down from the north, attacks the tribes,。
and basically intermarries with many of the Jewish women。
and kills the majority of the Jewish men.。
And what happens is the offspring that is born。
from these Gentile Jewish relationships。
and the new offspring that are born。
would come later on in the narrative in the New Testament。
in Jesus' time to be known as the Samaritans.。
Have you ever wondered why in Jesus' day。
the Jewish people hated the Samaritans so much?。
It's because they were half-Breeze.。
They were half Assyrians, half Jewish people.。
And because of the ugliness of that,。
they rejected the Samaritans.。
But Jesus, of course, himself goes and ministers,。
and that's a whole nother sermon series。
but we're not gonna go there now.。
But I want you just to follow the history.。
So Assyria comes down, attacks, intermarries.。
Now, the two tribes that remain south in Jerusalem,。
for a while they do okay, but in 605 BC,。
then Babylon comes in from the east and attacks Jerusalem.。
And Babylon tears down the walls of Jerusalem,。
most importantly, destroy the temple,。
the first temple in Jerusalem, destroy the temple,。
kill many of those two tribes,。
but takes a remnant of God's people。
and brings them back into captivity in Babylon.。
And so for 70 years, the Jewish people。
are in captivity in Babylon,。
wondering if they're ever going to be able to return。
back to their beloved city of Jerusalem,。
even though it lies in ruins.。
Well, God then raises up another nation, Persia,。
and Persia comes in from the east of Babylon,。
attacks Babylon.。
There's basically a lot of attacking that's happening.。
Have you seen the Lego people coming。
and swarming on the Lego people?。
So Assyria comes, attacks,。
and they have a different foreign policy.。
In their foreign policy,。
they realize that there are Jewish people。
in captivity in Babylon, but their home is Jerusalem.。
So King Cyrus of Persia allows, gives permission。
for the Jewish people to finally return home.。
The Jewish people go back in three waves,。
each under the leadership of an individual。
with a specific purpose.。
The first wave is under a leader called Zerubbabel,。
and they rebuild the wall, sorry, the temple.。
He has permission to rebuild the temple.。
The second wave is under the leadership of Nehemiah,。
and he and those around him rebuild the walls of Jerusalem.。
The third wave is under the leadership of Ezra,。
and Ezra's role is to reestablish the law,。
to get the law back up and running for God's people.。
So with these three waves, the temple gets rebuilt,。
the walls get reestablished,。
and the law gets established in the hearts of the people.。
Now, here's the really confusing thing.。
The book of Ezra, you would think,。
was all about the reestablishment of the law,。
but that actually is chronicled for us。
in the book of Nehemiah.。
Yes, I know.。
The book of Ezra, funnily enough,。
the first half of Ezra speaks about the restoration。
and rebuilding of the temple.。
So it's Zerubbabel,。
but it's written through Ezra's perspective.。
And particularly, once you get to chapter three of Ezra,。
you see this incredible moment。
where Ezra describes all of Israel。
gathered back in Jerusalem,。
and they're standing with their feet。
in the ruins of the old temple.。
And as they're standing with their feet。
in the ruins of the old temple,。
they begin to build the new temple。
out of the rubble of the old.。
Are you still with me?。
Now, when I read this a number of months ago,。
praying for you and praying for myself,。
something leapt in my spirit。
and something shifted in me.。
And I realized that that moment of Israel。
standing in the rubble of the old。
to begin the process of building the new。
resonated deeply with me.。
'Cause I don't know about you,。
but I can see that there's still a lot of rubble in my life.。
I know that there are still some things in my life。
that lays in ruins.。
Some things that I've struggled with。
for the majority of my life.。
Maybe situations in my past。
that has created some trauma for me.。
Relationships that didn't work out.。
Insecurities is something that I've spoken to you guys。
a lot about over the years of leadership here.。
Insecurities that I've struggled to deal with。
and struggled to shake.。
When I look at my life,。
yeah, I'm a pastor of a church,。
but I can see that there are still things。
laying in ruins within myself,。
within my identity, within my confidence,。
within the way I see myself.。
There's rubble there.。
I'm not the way that I long to be.。
And I wonder if that resonates。
with any of you here this morning.。
I wonder if you think about your life for a moment,。
you would be honest and say,。
"There's some stuff lying in ruins in me too."。
There's some rubble here as well, Andrew.。
Some things that I've struggled with.。
Some trauma of my past,。
decisions I made that didn't work out.。
Things that hurt me.。
Maybe people did other things that hurt me.。
Maybe sin that I've struggled to get rid of。
and I'm living in the consequences of that reality.。
I think if we're all honest with ourselves,。
we would all resonate with this thought。
that there's still rubble here.。
Rubble of the old, rubble of the past.。
And it still seems to be that we're standing。
in the reality of that rubble.。
And if that resonates with you,。
the next four weeks is gonna be。
incredibly exciting for you.。
I believe incredibly exciting for me。
'cause I think there are some keys and some tools。
that are gonna help each one of us。
rebuild from the rubble.。
And so what I wanna do here this morning。
is I wanna read this passage。
that we're gonna be looking at over these four weeks.。
It starts in verse 10 of chapter three。
and it goes all the way to verse five of chapter four.。
And then we're gonna jump in。
and just look at the first couple of verses。
in our time together here this morning.。
Is this okay, everyone?。
You guys all right?。
All right, cool.。
Let me read Ezra 3 verse 10.。
When the builders laid the foundation。
of the temple of the Lord,。
the priests in their vestments and with their trumpets。
and the Levites, the son of Aspha with symbols,。
took their place to praise the Lord。
as prescribed by David, King of Israel.。
With the praise and thanksgiving, they sang to the Lord,。
He is good for His love endures forever.。
And all the people gathered。
with a great shout of praise to the Lord。
because the foundation of the house of the Lord。
was being laid.。
But many of the older priests and Levites and family heads。
who had seen the former temple,。
wept aloud when they saw the foundation。
of the new temple, the second temple being laid.。
While many others shouted for joy.。
No one could distinguish the sounds of shouts for joy。
from the sound of weeping。
because the people made so much noise。
and the sound was heard from far away.。
When the enemies of Judah and Benjamin heard。
that the exiles were building a temple for the Lord,。
the God of Israel, they came to Zerubbabel。
and to the heads of the families and said,。
let us help you build because like you, we seek your God。
and have been sacrificing to Him since the time of Escherdon,。
the King of Assyria, who brought us here.。
But Zerubbabel, and you can almost certainly hear。
with the fire and the passion of the Lord within him。
and Jeshua and the rest of the heads。
of the families of Israel answered,。
you will have no part with us。
in building a temple to our God,。
for we alone will build it for the Lord,。
the God of Israel, as King Cyrus,。
the King of Persia has commanded us.。
Then the peoples around them set out。
to discourage the people of Judah。
and make them afraid to go on building the temple.。
They hired counselors to work against them。
and frustrate their plans during the entire reign。
of Cyrus, King of Persia,。
down to the reign of Darius, King of Persia.。
So there's this idea that God has anointed them。
for this project of rebuilding.。
There's resistance against that project.。
Zerubbabel stands firm and he says,。
mm-mm, we're not gonna listen to your voice.。
We're gonna stand firm on this in the Lord.。
And but throughout the whole time of rebuilding,。
there are people around saying,。
this is never going to amount to anything.。
I wonder if you've ever had somebody in your life。
that no matter how excited you are,。
no matter how much you're excited about the future,。
no matter how bubbly you might be,。
they're the naysayer and the voice of doom in your life.。
And that's not gonna happen.。
You don't have the resources.。
You don't have the network.。
You don't have the friends.。
Have you seen yourself lately?。
We've all got these people in our lives。
that are trying to tell us that we cannot do。
the very thing that the Lord has said we can do.。
Any process of personal transformation。
is gonna have to wrestle with the naysayers and the doubters.。
And here's what happens.。
They're not always external.。
Sometimes they're internal.。
Now notice what happens at the start.。
When the builders laid the foundation。
of the temple of the Lord.。
Let's just stop there.。
Ezra begins this beautiful moment,。
this significant historical moment。
of the building of the second temple.。
And he says, here's the reality.。
At the moment we're standing there,。
our feet are still in the ruins of the old temple.。
Our feet are in the rubble of the old,。
but then the builders come。
and the builders begin the process of restoration.。
What I love what Ezra does here,。
and you can see Nehemiah doing something similar。
in his description of this event as well.。
They're not shying away from the reality。
that their glorious Jerusalem is now lying in ruins.。
In fact, we see this more profoundly,。
I think, in the book of Nehemiah.。
So let me just jump to Nehemiah 4, verse two.。
Let me read this to you.。
It says this, in the presence of his associates。
in the army of Samaria, he said,。
what are these feeble Jews doing?。
This is another one of those naysaying voices.。
Will they restore their wall?。
Will they offer sacrifices in a temple?。
Will they finish in a day?。
Can they bring the stones back to life。
from those heaps of rubble, burned as they are?。
So I want you to see the actual picture。
of Jerusalem in this moment.。
And the naysayers describe it and Nehemiah captures it.。
They're literally standing in the ruins.。
It's literally like so bad that the stones are so burnt,。
so broken up, so desecrated,。
that the enemies are taunting Israel.。
And they're saying, have you not seen the stones?。
Don't you realize that there is nothing。
that can come from this?。
How could life ever come from these stones。
as burnt out as they are?。
And what I love about what Ezra is doing in chapter three。
is he's not hiding from the reality。
that the stones are burnt.。
He's not trying to cover up the reality。
that Jerusalem is desolate at this time.。
He's not trying to pretend。
that things are better than they are.。
He's not trying to sweep the issues under the rug.。
He's not trying to say that,。
hey, we just need a fresh thinking about what the,。
no, he's actually going, okay, we are standing here.。
And yes, the stones, they're burnt out, they're broken.。
He's like, this has to be our starting point.。
And I think what we see here is a profound first idea。
when we think about our own journeys。
of personal transformation.。
It's always going to begin when we take a good,。
honest, and sober look and admit and acknowledge。
what lies in ruins in our life.。
No one has ever changed until they've realized。
that they need to change.。
And so here's a moment where Ezra is not trying。
to sweep it all under the rug.。
He's putting out that Nehemiah,。
letting us know what those stones actually look like,。
burnt and broken.。
And they're doing it 'cause they're trying to say,。
that's the beginning point.。
And if you want to change,。
if you want the Lord to do something in your life,。
it is going to start when you realize, you know what?。
I admit there's some ruins in me.。
I admit that there are some areas of rubble。
that I wish they weren't there, but they are there.。
I'm struggling with the reality that this is here.。
Notice this, you will never become the person。
God longs you to be until you first actually wrestle。
with who you are and understand and own the person。
that you are today.。
You're never gonna become the person。
that God longs for you to be until you first take。
that understanding and that ownership of who you are today,。
putting your hand up in your spirit and in your heart。
before the Lord, maybe doing it before others。
in your small group community and saying, I'm struggling.。
I mean, it's hard.。
I got some trauma I'm struggling to shake.。
I got some sin that I can't seem to deal with.。
I got some insecurities that are still present,。
whatever it might be for you.。
Our starting point is, this is honestly。
what's going on in my life.。
This is who I am.。
I'm not hiding from it.。
I'm not trying to run from it.。
I'm not trying to pretend that it's not there.。
I'm not coming in on Sunday, raising my hands。
and singing these great songs for Jesus。
and then doing all the things I'm doing in the week.。
No, eventually I have to lay the line in the sand。
and say, there's rubble here.。
There's rubble here.。
There's things laying in ruins and it's not right.。
And I want the Lord to change me 'cause I've got a burden.。
I've got a longing inside of me, a holy dissatisfaction。
for the way that I am and I longing for more.。
That's where it begins.。
That's where it begins in this moment right here。
for God's people standing in the rubble of their life.。
And as they're standing there and they're realizing。
that this is the starting point,。
just to acknowledge the reality that there is rubble there,。
I want you to see what happens next.。
This is so important.。
They come to realize something。
and they come to make a decision.。
They realize that God's renewal always begins in the rubble.。
God's renewal always begins in the rubble.。
And so if step one is to say, I can see some places。
in my life where there's ruin and rubble,。
step two is to go and that's the playground of Jesus Christ.。
Like the ruins and the rubble is where God。
gets most excited.。
The stuff that's broken in me, if his primary focus。
is to move us to become more and more like Christ Jesus,。
he sees the rubble inside of me and he gets excited。
for the change that's coming.。
You see, God looks at the rubble in your life。
and he's not repelled or repulsed by it.。
Instead he rejoices and he rolls up his sleeves.。
He looks over you and he says,。
okay, I can see some stuff you're struggling with.。
I know things are hard, I know this is challenging,。
but I see you and I see the person you're becoming.。
And I'm so excited that I can draw alongside of you.。
I'm not repelled by that brokenness.。
I'm not repelled by the rubble around you.。
No, the rubble is my playground.。
The rubble is the very place that I take and transform.。
Notice this, Israel does not see the rubble。
and the burnt out stones, get rid of them all。
and then bring in some other stones.。
They take those stones and they lay the foundation。
of the new temple.。
It's the same with Jesus.。
He takes the rubble of our lives and he doesn't go,。
away it goes.。
He takes the rubble and he restores and renews it.。
The very thing that we thought could never come to any good。
comes good so that he receives the glory.。
And with an enemy are taunting Israel,。
have you seen the stones?。
Don't you realize that nothing good can come from that?。
Burned as they are, Israel had to make a choice.。
They had to make a choice 'cause they could see the stones,。
same as everybody else.。
Their choice was, are they going to see the stones,。
agree with the taunters and say, you know what?。
I don't think anything good can come with it.。
Or were they gonna see the stones and say,。
hang on a sec, sure, I can see how burned out they are,。
but that's just the possibility then。
for God to do an even greater miracle.。
That's just therefore the way for God to come。
and restore and renew in ways that we can never do.。
Are they going to choose to go with the enemy's voice。
or are they gonna choose to go with a voice of faith?。
And every single one of us,。
if we want any transformation in Jesus Christ,。
we are always gonna come to the same decision point.。
Some of you, I know I do this.。
I look at some of the brokenness in me and I think,。
I don't think God could ever do anything with that.。
And immediately I'm operating from a place of defeat.。
I have to make a decision.。
Do I really believe that the rubble is the Lord's playground?。
Do I really believe that what I thought burnt as it is。
could never come to anything good,。
that if God touches it, it can come to life?。
Jesus, as the widow comes out of the village of Nain。
with her dead son in a casket, touches the casket,。
and he says, "Arise."。
Do I believe that the Spirit of God can touch the rubble。
that lays ruin in me and stay alive?。
It's a challenge.。
It's a challenge because it's easy for us to, I think,。
listen to the rubble than it is to stand in faith。
with the Lord.。
Some of you need to realize that when you look at the rubble。
of your past and you just see failure,。
God looks at that rubble and he sees your good future.。
What you think is the rubble of your past,。
God sees as the building blocks of your future.。
He sees the very thing that he can't wait to do。
in your life, the very thing that he seeks。
to transform and renew.。
He sees the rubble, but he sees it and rejoices.。
He rolls up his sleeves and he's like,。
"Do you wanna get to work?"。
The question we should have is then,。
"Yeah, I think I do, Andrew, but I don't know how.。
"Like, how do we start?。
"What is the starting posture of my heart?。
"How do I resonate to what you're saying here today?。
"It's resonating, but how do I move forward?。
"What is my starting point?"。
Well, I want you to see what happens in verse 10 and 11 here.。
It says this, it says,。
"When the builders laid the foundation。
"of the temple of the Lord,。
"the priests in their vestments and with trumpets,。
"and the Levites, the son of Asher with their symbols,。
"took their places to praise the Lord。
"as described by David, king of Israel.。
"With praise and thanksgiving, they sang to the Lord,。
"'He is good, his love to Israel endures forever.'。
"And all the people gave a great shout of praise。
"to the Lord because the foundation。
"of the house of the Lord was made."。
This should blow your mind 'cause it blows mine.。
As they're standing in the rubble,。
and as the first builders begin to take that rubble。
and begin to construct the new temple,。
here's what we see Israel doing.。
They're worshiping, they're praising,。
they're clashing symbols together,。
they're jumping up and down, they're shouting for joy,。
they're making so much noise。
that it's heard from far and far away.。
Israel's having a worship dance party。
whilst they're surrounded by rubble.。
Now, I don't know about you,。
when I'm aware of the rubble in my life,。
I don't feel like a worship dance party.。
In fact, when the rubble is in my life,。
when the ruins, I mean, I'm aware of them。
and I'm soberly seeing them,。
I wanna run in the other direction, I wanna get away.。
I don't want someone clashing symbols around me。
and going, "Praise Jesus."。
I wanna run to a cave and escape.。
Anyone with me?。
Like we have this kind of averse thing,。
like we're in the rubble,。
the last thing we think is to praise,。
here's Israel in the rubble and they're finding a voice.。
I'll tell you what,。
when I'm aware of the pain of my rubble,。
there are words coming out of my mouth,。
but you would not wanna hear them on a Sunday.。
But here's Israel, great as our God,。
singing away, clashing the symbols,。
having a party as the temple's being rebuilt.。
And this should really challenge you。
because here's the thing,。
as Christians, our primary posture in worship。
is to worship as a response to something God has done。
rather than at the beginning of something。
we're hoping Him to do.。
Come on church.。
Like as Christians, largely,。
we find worship rising up inside of us。
because the prayer was answered,。
because the thing we had hoped for did happen,。
because the healing that we needed came through.。
And when those things happen,。
we stand back and we go, "God is awesome.。
"God is great."。
And so often as Christians,。
I think we base our worship in a retrospective,。
a reactive thing rather than a proactive thing.。
And trust me, when God heals you,。
when He does something, you should worship.。
You should respond in praise.。
You should respond in a hallelujah and in glory.。
That's an absolutely right thing to do.。
But when our primary posture with worship。
is always in response to what God is doing,。
then we're standing there waiting for God to do something。
before we give Him glory.。
When actually maybe we need to begin。
to think of worship differently.。
Maybe there's another kind of worship,。
I would argue one that is way more rare,。
but one that is way more powerful,。
the kind of worship that says,。
"I'm gonna praise Him long before He does。
"anything I've asked Him to do."。
Long before He's come through,。
long before the healing, long before the restoration,。
long before the temple is built,。
we're gonna start the process.。
The process, whilst we're still with our feet in the rubble,。
we're not gonna allow the rubble to speak louder to us。
than our faith within us.。
No, this is the time where we're going to praise Him.。
We're making a decision to praise right at the start.。
Why?。
Because we're not praising in response,。
we're praising prophetically.。
We're praising, asking, expecting, hoping,。
and seeing that we know the Lord's gonna do.。
He's gonna do something with this rubble.。
We don't know what it's gonna do.。
We don't know how the temple's gonna look.。
It could look as good as the first one.。
It could look different than the first one.。
That's not the big issue here.。
The big issue is God is at work.。
And the way I respond to God being at work。
is to allow my hallelujah to come out.。
This kind of worship is a weapon.。
This is the kind of worship that takes the walls of Jericho。
and pulls them down to rubble,。
and then takes the rubble of Jerusalem。
and rebuilds a glorious city with the name of Jesus.。
That's worship.。
And that's where these people are,。
and they begin to give this exclamation of the worship.。
Now, notice what is the content of their worship.。
This is powerful.。
Verse 11, "With praise and thanksgiving,。
they sang to the Lord, 'He is good.。
His love endures forever.'"。
Isn't that beautiful?。
That's not the content of my worship in that situation.。
You wanna know what the content of my worship would be?。
Lord, I praise you。
because you're gonna build a great temple, right?。
Like, I praise you。
because you're gonna make Israel great again.。
I praise you because our name is gonna be feared。
by all the Gentiles around the world again.。
I praise you.。
In other words, so often our worship。
is essentially taking our kind of our prayer wish lists。
and putting music to it, right?。
Like all the things that we want God to do for us.。
This is why we resonate sometimes。
with certain worship songs.。
Have you ever noticed, and this is the thing to do,。
have you ever noticed that some of the worship songs。
that you resonate to, you resonate to。
because they speak of a God doing something。
that you want God to do for you?。
And so our worship becomes like our prayers.。
Oh God, would you do this?。
Would you do this?。
Oh God, we worship you because you're gonna do this.。
You're gonna do this.。
You're right, you're gonna do this, right?。
You did it before, you're gonna do it again.。
(congregation laughing)。
And we begin to align our worship。
to what we're asking God to do.。
And when God doesn't do it, what happens to our worship?。
Israel does not stand before the Lord and say,。
"We're worshiping you。
because of what we're expecting you to do with the temple."。
They stand before the Lord and they say,。
"Our worship is not based on what you're going to do.。
It's not based on our circumstance.。
It's not based on our expectation.。
Our worship is simply based。
in your character and your nature."。
You are good, they say.。
They say, "We don't know what our future is,。
but we do know you are good.。
We don't know what's gonna happen down the line,。
but we do know you are good.。
And we're gonna base our worship。
in your character and your nature.。
We're gonna praise character over circumstance。
'cause our circumstance,。
we're surrounded by a bunch of rubble that lays in ruins,。
but we're gonna go with character over circumstance.。
We're gonna go with God's nature。
rather than the world's narrative."。
He is good, they say.。
His love endures forever.。
Man, I don't know if God's gonna heal me of my insecurities。
that I've wrestled with for so many years,。
but I do know He is good.。
I don't know if He's gonna answer all the prayers。
that I'm praying for in certain areas of my life。
the way that I want Him to answer it,。
but I do know that He is good.。
I don't know if He's gonna heal your cancer,。
but I do know He is good.。
I don't know if He's gonna provide that great job。
that you're hoping for, but I do know that He is good.。
I don't know if He's gonna restore and repair your marriage,。
but I do know that He is good.。
And here's what happens when we shift our worship。
away from retroactive, from what has happened。
to what we are looking for in the future,。
as we shift the perspective of our worship,。
and as we shift from circumstance to the nature of God,。
everything around us begins to change.。
You need to understand that in the Christian life,。
the journey of personal transformation。
actually happens and takes place。
not when we see a change in our circumstance,。
but when we see a change in our perspective,。
not in terms of how we see the world,。
but in terms of how we see God.。
I guarantee you, you will start to personally transform。
when you see God differently.。
See, when you see God as good,。
that changes how you need to see everything else.。
If that is your primary thing,。
everything else around you has to shift and change.。
Or think of it this way,。
when your divine perspective shifts,。
then your temporal reality will always be reframed.。
When we say He is good,。
everything around us begins to shift。
in the light of the declaration that He is good.。
When we say that He is the one,。
everything else has to fall in line to that,。
even though the circumstance might be trying to tell us,。
"Hey, these stones can't live.。
Look at how burnt out they are."。
No, no, He is good.。
So I don't know what's gonna happen to those prayers.。
I don't know what's gonna happen to my cancer.。
I don't know what's gonna happen to whatever it might be。
that I'm wrestling with in my life, but here's what,。
I'm reframing what I think about it。
because my starting point is a declaration。
of the nature of God, not the reality of the rubble itself.。
He's good.。
So if I really believe that He's good,。
then I have to believe that something's going to change.。
I don't know how, I don't know why,。
but I will find my voice, joy in the beginning.。
And I won't make my worship only a response。
to the great things He's done,。
but I will also make my worship prophetic。
because of the character and the nature of Him。
and all the change that is ahead,。
the burden in me to be different.。
So let me pull it all together and finish with this.。
The first part of any personal transformation journey。
is to say there's rubble, there's ruin.。
It's to be honest about it, not try to hide it,。
not try to push it away.。
Number two, once we do that,。
we have to recognize that God's playground is that rubble,。
that His renewal happens in the rubble.。
And when we've come to understand that,。
then we come to realize that our starting point。
is not to try to change ourselves.。
Our starting point is not to try to work。
on our circumstance.。
Our starting point is worship,。
to declare God's goodness,。
even in the reality of all the things that have to come.。
And as we declare His nature over our circumstance,。
our perspective about that circumstance begins to change.。
And even if the rubble looks so burnt out。
that we think nothing good could ever come from it,。
when we say He is good,。
we begin to think about the rubble differently.。
The rubble begins to look way differently。
when we begin to declare the goodness of God.。
If you're excited about a change。
that the Lord wants to bring your life,。
own where you are today, invite the Lord in,。
start in a place of worship,。
shift from circumstance to character in your worship,。
and look at what the Lord will do.。
Amen.。
Can I pray for you?。
Would you stand with me? Let's pray.。
Let's just take a moment just to let the Spirit speak。
to each one of us personally.。
He's so excited about your personal transformation journey。
over the weeks ahead.。
Father, we thank you for what we've seen。
out of this just few verses from Ezra.。
Lord, we recognize that each one of us。
are standing to some degree in some of the ruins。
and the rubble of stuff that has happened in our past。
and the way that that has held us captive.。
Father, I wanna pray right now。
just for anyone in this room。
where they're overwhelmed by the rubble.。
I get it 'cause I've been many times in my life too.。
And maybe if that's you,。
let me just pray pastorally over you.。
And the pain is very real, the trauma is real.。
We're not gonna sweep it under the carpet,。
pretend it's not there.。
Some of you are carrying great hurt and pain.。
Some of you are in really difficult circumstances。
and situations.。
And we're not minimizing any of that.。
In fact, what we've seen in the text today。
is that Ezra and Nehemiah did not minimize。
the burnt out rubble around them.。
And so if you're in a season of great trauma and trial,。
we just pray as a community over you right now.。
And we pray that you would feel God's presence with you,。
you would feel strengthened,。
you'd feel the love of Christ through you,。
you would feel that you're not alone,。
that you have an army of people around you,。
and that you would feel the wind of the Spirit。
despite the reality of the pain.。
So Lord, we just bless pastorally。
those in our community that are really struggling.。
(gentle music)。
Father, I wanna challenge also some of those here。
to make a decision today.。
I feel like for some of you,。
you've looked at the stuff in your past。
and you looked at the rubble that's there still,。
and you've kind of sided with the taunts of the enemy.。
And you've looked at it and you've like,。
I don't think anything good could ever come of that.。
Man, I screwed up in the past, I'm on plan B,。
I'm on plan C in God's eyes.。
How could God ever use me?。
I could understand why He's using other people,。
but He's never gonna use me.。
He's never gonna heal me.。
That rubble is never gonna get transformed in my life.。
I feel like for some of you in this room,。
the starting point for you is to make a decision。
in your heart.。
And you may not know exactly what the Lord's gonna do,。
you may not know how it's all gonna turn out,。
but right now at the start of this series,。
it's just a simple declaration in your heart.。
I don't understand it all, Lord,。
but I refuse to allow the rubble to tell me。
that there is no hope.。
I refuse to allow the trauma to tell me。
that there is not a healthy version of me just ahead.。
And I make a decision this morning in this moment。
to take that faith and that courage。
in this season of uncharted territory。
in the area of my personal growth.。
And then for some of you,。
this worship thing is really important.。
And like I said earlier,。
maybe because of all the things。
that are happening in your life,。
the last thing you feel like doing is worshiping,。
but I wanna just release over you。
a gift of worship in your heart.。
That today you would shift from worship。
that is as a result of what the Lord has done,。
as good and as important as that kind of worship is,。
but worship that is a prophetic declaration。
for what the Lord may or may not do in the future.。
It doesn't matter.。
What matters is His character and His nature。
and circumstance will never shift who He is.。
He is good and His love endures forever.。
And Lord, I pray over anyone in this room,。
online and our overflow,。
who just needs to shift their worship。
to the nature and the character。
and the goodness of their Lord,。
despite what the rubble might be trying to say.。
Lord, I pray that that shift this week。
would be monumental in their spirit。
and in their heart and in their life.。
And I pray you would raise up。
like you did in Israel in those moments.。
You would raise up an army of people。
who would rebuild walls and rebuild temples。
because they know that you are good.。
And we pray this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says, amen, amen.。
(congregation applauding)。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
