Stop, think, don't do something stupid.。
Sounds quite simple, right?。
We stop whatever we're doing,。
we take time to reflect and we think,。
and because we do that,。
we're able to make better decisions。
that are good for ourselves,。
but also decisions that are better for other people.。
But I have a question.。
Do we actually really do that?。
Sometimes we do, but a lot of times we don't.。
And I want to share with you a time when I have not done that.。
So in 2010 to 2013,。
I was living in Hong Kong,。
this was the first time around.。
I was working for a church full-time,。
but I also studied full-time for three years.。
And so the way I did my work was,。
I worked, I came home, I studied, I went to bed.。
And then I repeat the next day.。
And then on the days that I was off,。
I also worked all day because that was the time。
when I really could get my studies,。
take care of my studies.。
And so I just kept going in this brutal cycle,。
and one thing I didn't do。
was I didn't schedule in some rest.。
I just, you know, went for it.。
But the problem was there were signs。
that something was not going right that I ignored.。
I don't know if you ever do that.。
So I started gaining a lot of weight.。
My back started hurting.。
Friendships started to suffer。
because the only way I could carry friendships was at work.。
But I still kept going.。
I ignored the warning signs.。
And so I ended up having so much back pain,。
I had a prolapsed disc。
where I had this sharp pain running down my leg.。
So prolapsed disc, slipped disc.。
I started to not be able to walk that far anymore.。
And I suddenly had these sharp pains。
where it didn't matter where I was,。
I had to sit down on the floor。
and curl up in some position。
so that I could deal with the pain.。
And so we're talking Hong Kong streets.。
Laying on the streets, curling up in a position。
so I wasn't in pain.。
And as you know, Hong Kong streets are not very clean.。
So not a great place to do that.。
But I kept going, right?。
And that was not the only thing that suffered.。
My friendship suffered。
and also my relationship with God suffered as well.。
Because when you keep going and going and going。
and you're just grinding。
and you're in this brutal cycle of work without rest,。
it's hard to actually enjoy。
and be in a relationship with God。
and to hear from God.。
And so spiritually I was also dry。
a lot of the times during that time period.。
But I'm sure that I'm not the only one who does it.。
I'm sure that I'm not the only one。
whose life has started to spin out of control。
because of a relentless schedule.。
As Benedict already mentioned,。
the city can be relentless in terms of what it demands of you.。
Maybe it's your workplace。
where you have a job,。
your colleague quits,。
suddenly you need to do your colleague's work.。
But guess what?。
They're not hiring somebody to replace your colleague.。
Boo!。
Right? Boo!。
Well, so suddenly you have this crushing workload。
that you need to carry.。
Or maybe, I just learned this, I'm very proud of this,。
the 9-9-6 work culture.。
9am to 9pm, six days a week.。
Maybe that is your schedule.。
And beyond that,。
there's not much time for anything else.。
Then sometimes also work doesn't just take place in a workplace.。
Work also takes place at home.。
So there might be demands at home.。
So there's a lot of things that can make our schedule。
quite brutal, quite relentless.。
And if we don't have times of rest,。
this relentless schedule starts crushing us.。
And it comes at a high cost.。
And there's pressures that work two ways.。
There's internal pressure and there's external pressure.。
External pressure is what I was describing with our jobs。
and our circumstances, maybe at home.。
But then there's the internal pressure as well.。
And that's actually striving.。
Where we're trying to be someone, please someone,。
be accepted by someone.。
And there's something within us that makes us feel like。
we cannot relax.。
Because if I relax, I'm not going to pass my studies.。
If I relax, I'm not going to be able to hold this degree.。
So I always need to work.。
I just need to keep going.。
I need to keep pushing.。
And so there are these external and internal forces。
that we experience.。
Is anyone tired by now?。
Talking about not resting?。
I feel kind of tired.。
But what I want to do with you,。
I want to explore with you a question.。
And that's this.。
How can we cultivate a life that is marked by rest。
and not striving and exhaustion?。
How do you do that?。
And what does God's word have to say to us about that?。
Like how can God speak into our life about this topic?。
So we're going to be in Genesis chapter 1 and 2 today.。
Again, actually mainly in chapter 2.。
And we're going to explore what that has to say.。
Now the first Sunday of the Stewarding Our Life sermon series,。
I think four or five weeks ago,。
we talked about that we are created in God's image.。
And that part of what it means to be created in God's image。
is that we are rulers, we are cultivators,。
we image God in this creative work,。
and we're actually created for good work.。
We're created to cultivate, to make culture,。
to organize the structure,。
to contribute to the flourishing and the thriving。
of the world in general and of people specifically.。
And that when we do that,。
that's what we are partially created for.。
We can be fully human, fully who God has made us to be.。
And if we're not able to do that, we suffer.。
And we've experienced that.。
I shared about a time of unemployment in my life。
that was difficult, even mentally, for me.。
But today we're going to look at the other side of it,。
because work is not the only thing that we're meant to do。
or that we're created for.。
We're also created for rest and enjoyment.。
And so let me take you to Genesis 2,。
where starting in verse 1, it says this.。
This is day 7 of creation, by the way.。
It says this,。
"Thus the heavens and the earth were completed。
in all their vast array.。
By the seventh day, God had finished the work。
he had been doing."。
So on the seventh day, he rested from all his work.。
"Then God blessed the seventh day and made it holy,。
because on it he rested from all the work of creating。
that he had done."。
So this is the beginning of the Bible,。
and it talks about God working。
and then God seizing and resting.。
And I want to explore these few verses with you。
by three words.。
And that's rested, blessed, and made holy.。
So let me start with rested.。
So God created the world six days,。
and he looked at it, it was very good,。
and then he rested.。
Now the word rest is Shabbat,。
and Shabbat, that's also where we get the word Sabbath from.。
It means to rest, to stop, to cease, to desist,。
to celebrate, to be completed.。
So God had completed his work, and he stopped.。
And he paused.。
So that's the first thing.。
God just didn't keep relentlessly going.。
He enjoyed what he had made.。
The second thing is blessed, Barach.。
Now this is interesting because this is the third time。
in the creation narrative that God blessed something.。
First he blesses living creatures.。
Then God blesses human beings.。
And he blesses them because he wants them to multiply,。
to flourish, to thrive.。
And now thirdly, he blesses a day.。
Now that's kind of strange.。
It's like living creatures, people,。
but now he blesses a day.。
What in the world does that mean?。
It means that God, that this day is fruitful,。
that there is something that he does when we observe that,。
that it bears fruit in our lives.。
There's a blessing over it that God has spoken over time。
that when we observe it, we experience the fruitfulness。
of this day.。
So God spoke a blessing over it, and he made the day fruitful.。
Interesting, right?。
Because a lot of times the only way we feel like it's fruitful。
is if we're productive and get stuff done.。
But God makes a day of rest fruitful.。
He blessed it.。
And then the third word is made holy, Kedesh.。
And so that means to set apart, to consecrate, to make holy.。
Now that's also an interesting concept.。
How can you make a day holy?。
Like we might expect a site to be holy,。
that there's a holy mountain or a holy person,。
but for a day to be holy.。
Now holy means basically to be set apart.。
So God has set apart this day for himself,。
and he has made it holy.。
Now let me put all of this together.。
What we see here from this in Genesis 1 and 2。
is that in creating the world,。
God establishes a pattern of work and rest for human beings。
that is essential for human flourishing.。
Six days we work, one day we rest.。
When we observe that rhythm, we can flourish.。
When we ignore it, it's like going against a grain of wood.。
You get splinters.。
There's a price to pay when we ignore it.。
That's just generally part of the rhythm that God has established.。
So that's the first thing.。
But I want to follow this idea of rest in the scripture。
through the Old Testament and then also the New Testament.。
So how does it continue?。
Well, the next book of the Bible is the book of Exodus.。
And there God actually commands his people to observe the Sabbath,。
to keep the seventh day holy.。
And this happens after the Exodus.。
So God has powerfully delivered Israel out of slavery.。
And then they're at Mount Sinai,。
and God reveals through the Ten Commandments。
part of who he wants his people to be,。
how they can flourish and thrive,。
how they can be a society that has a character that honors God.。
And part of that is the Sabbath and observance of that day.。
So let me read that to you.。
It's in Exodus 20, starting in verse 8, it says this.。
"Remember the Sabbath day by keeping it holy.。
Six days you shall labor and do all your work.。
But the seventh day is the Sabbath to the Lord your God.。
On it you shall not do any work,。
neither you nor your son or daughter,。
nor your male or female servant,。
nor your animals, nor any foreigner residing in your towns."。
I'm just going to pause you for a second.。
I love that this applies to everyone, right?。
This is not just for the Israelites.。
This is God's principle for everyone.。
It doesn't matter who you are, where you come from,。
what your role is.。
This is for everyone.。
But let's continue in verse 11.。
"For in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth,。
the sea and all that is in them.。
But he rested on the seventh day.。
Therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and made it holy."。
So the Sabbath command in this first time。
that the Ten Commandments are or appear in the Bible,。
it is rooted, it is grounded in God's creation narrative.。
You know, that God worked and God rested,。
and therefore you are to work and you are also meant to rest.。
But there is actually a second time。
where God gives the Ten Commandments.。
And this is Moses shares them to a new generation.。
And there's a difference.。
He roots the reason for why Israel is supposed to observe the Sabbath。
in a different reason.。
Let me show you.。
Deuteronomy 5, verse 15, it says this.。
"Remember that you were slaves in Egypt,。
and that the Lord your God brought you out of there。
with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm.。
Therefore the Lord your God has commanded you。
to observe the Sabbath day."。
Interesting.。
So here Moses grounds the observance of the Sabbath。
in the Exodus story, not the creation story.。
And the Exodus story is a redemption story。
because remember, the Israelites, they were slaves in Egypt.。
They had a relentless schedule.。
They had to work every day.。
There was no break.。
They had a brick-making quota for the Egyptian building project。
that was brutal.。
They had to go get their own straw for making bricks.。
And so God is saying, "I have delivered you.。
I have set you free.。
You have now freedom.。
And when you're a free person, you rest.。
You don't just keep going like when you were enslaved in Egypt."。
And it's interesting because when you look at Deuteronomy 5, verse 15,。
it says, "Remember that you were slaves."。
You were.。
You're not anymore.。
And so Israel needed to remember that,。
and they needed to live in this freedom that God had given them.。
You're no longer under Pharaoh's rule.。
You're under God's rule.。
You're no longer under a tyrant's rule.。
You're under loving God's rule.。
So observe the Sabbath and rest.。
Now, the Sabbath was a sign of the covenant。
that God had made between Israel and himself.。
And so observing it was a way of keeping the covenant.。
So they were commanded to do it.。
They had to do it.。
But both the creation story and the Exodus story,。
they shape how the Sabbath was lived out.。
So first, the creation story, on the one hand,。
reminds Israel that God is the ultimate creator,。
that he is the ultimate provider,。
and all source of blessing comes from him.。
And that means because God is the source of our blessings,。
not our own striving and work,。
that means we can actually afford to rest and cease and start working。
because he will provide.。
And then on the other hand, the Exodus story reminds Israel。
that they are beloved, redeemed children of God.。
It reminds them that they're supposed to leave Egypt behind.。
You do not have to work.。
You don't have to exist in this way anymore,。
that the surrounding culture is existing.。
I want you to live differently.。
And so you're going to cease and you're going to pause.。
And isn't that interesting because I feel like for us,。
we have pressure from our surrounding culture, right,。
to just keep going, to keep working, to produce more.。
And sometimes that's pressure from within us,。
but it's also pressure from around us.。
So actually observing rest as a powerful declaration in faith in God。
that he provides, that I am his, that I am free,。
and I do not need to give in to the tyranny of this relentless,。
restless schedule that is placed on us.。
And so this is what the Sabbath practice of Israel is rooted in.。
So let's fast forward to the New Testament.。
And here that could be a lot that could be said,。
and I'm going to keep it quite simple and to the point.。
I'm going to address the question,。
do Christians still need to observe the Sabbath?。
And the quick answer is no, but I want to explain.。
And I also want to point out that the creation rhythm that God has established。
of work and rest is still that rhythm, and if we ignore it, it impacts us.。
So that's very important.。
So I just want to say that straight away.。
There is blessing on resting, and it is fruitful when we rest.。
But we don't have to observe the Sabbath like Israel had to.。
And so I want to take you to one of Paul's writings in Colossians 2, 16.。
He says this, "Therefore do not let anyone judge you by what you eat or drink。
or with regard to religious festivals, a new moon, celebration of a Sabbath day.。
These are a shadow of the things that were to come.。
The reality, however, is found in Christ."。
Now what does this mean?。
Well, it points to that Christ has fulfilled what the Sabbath points to.。
The Sabbath was a sign pointing forward, a weekly reminder。
that our own work can never save us.。
It can never fully give us rest.。
It can never fully make us whole.。
And that this rest and this wholeness is alone found in Christ,。
and Christ has fulfilled that.。
And so when we're anxious and striving people and we can't stop,。
we find rest in Jesus because our striving doesn't really bring us security.。
It doesn't really bring us wholeness that we think it will.。
We think it will establish us.。
We think that we can save ourselves in essence through our efforts.。
We're going to make ourselves whole by trying harder,。
by working harder, by positioning ourselves better,。
but we never fully arrive.。
But in Jesus, there are true rest and wholeness is found.。
He gives us our identity.。
You are beloved children, sons and daughters of God,。
and you can find rest in that.。
It's not rest in your striving, which we think will bring us that security and rest,。
but it never does.。
You never arrive, but you can find rest in Christ.。
So that's what Paul is saying, that Sabbath was a shadow。
and was observant that pointed towards the ultimate rest,。
which is found only in Christ Jesus.。
And that is part of the gospel message,。
that when we come to Jesus, we can experience this peace。
and we can experience this rest over our striving, over what wears us out.。
But all of this brings me back to this question I asked at the beginning of the message.。
How can we cultivate a life that is marked by rest and not striving and exhaustion?。
What does that look like?。
How do we actually break this cycle that so many of us find ourselves in,。
that many of us here today are stuck in?。
How can we start seeing that changed?。
Well, for one, we learn from the creation story。
that there is this rhythm that God has established of work and rest,。
and that when we observe it, that there is blessing in that.。
So that's always true.。
And if we go against that, we will pay a price for that.。
But then we also see that through Jesus, there is this greater rest.。
In him, in Galatians 5.15, it says this,。
that it is for freedom that Christ has set us free.。
Stand firm then and do not let yourself be burned again by the yoke of slavery.。
Christ has set you free for freedom.。
You no longer need to live this way.。
Live as free people, not as enslaved people.。
And this is still true for us Christians.。
Yes, in Jesus there is rest when we come to know him, and there is peace.。
But then we need to learn to live in this rest, and it doesn't automatically happen.。
We can still be restless, anxious, worn out, even as Christians.。
So again, how do we cultivate this life of peace and rest and wholeness?。
What does that look like?。
Where do we start?。
Well, the first thing is we actually need a schedule, a time.。
Is that a German thing? Schedule time?。
Got to go to a schedule, let me look.。
But you somehow have to put it in your schedule.。
If you do it officially, on your phone, or in your planner, or mentally,。
however you do that, you actually need a schedule time of rest.。
Now for a lot of us, of course it's amazing if you can take a whole day。
and somehow figure out how to do that.。
Praise God that you're able to do that.。
And some people are. Others struggle with that, with the demands that are on them.。
So what I want to encourage you is actually just start somewhere.。
This is not about perfection. Start somewhere.。
If you can carve out two, three hours, maybe one hour is like sleeping in longer,。
and then there's two hours of drawing close to God, put that in your schedule.。
And start doing that regularly.。
So the first thing is we need to schedule it.。
Second, spend unhurried time with God.。
So this is where observing rest in the way that Scripture encourages。
is different from taking time off.。
Time off is like I'm watching Netflix, I'm just laying in bed, doing whatever.。
But when we want to cultivate this life of rest, it does take time,。
spending time in a relationship with God.。
So we need to have unhurried time with God.。
Now what might this look like?。
I think this looks quite different for different people.。
I'm a little bit hesitant to say this is exactly what you need to do.。
But I'll just share what I do and some things that I know people do,。
and I hope you can decide what will be helpful for you.。
So for me, what I do is I need about an hour and a half time.。
I don't necessarily use that hour and a half, but I just need that time。
because otherwise it's not unhurried time.。
Because, for example, in the mornings when I do my devotions,。
a lot of times I'm rushed.。
It is unhurried time, even if I try for it not to be.。
So when I want to set aside this time to really rest and spend time with God,。
I need unhurried time.。
So I might spend 45 minutes, maybe an hour, maybe a little bit longer with God,。
but I just have the freedom because there's a margin.。
And then in that time I might worship, I read Scripture,。
I pray over Scripture, I journal, I pray for you, I pray for my family.。
And so those are like some of the components that are part of my unhurried time with God.。
But for you, maybe it's like prayer walking.。
Maybe you're like a person who connects outside with God,。
and you're walking out in nature, and you're praying outside in that way,。
and you're worshiping.。
So whatever is helpful to you, do that, to spend unhurried time with God.。
Does that make sense?。
All right, third one.。
And this is be renewed.。
Now, this is not something that we do.。
This is something that the Spirit of God does.。
But when we schedule a time of rest, when we spend unhurried time with God,。
God does renew us and refresh us.。
Remember earlier there's just blessing over when we have time of rest.。
Well, God blesses that time.。
He makes it fruitful.。
And he wants this time to bear fruit in your life.。
And so there's two main ways that I believe that God wants to make this time fruitful.。
Or let me put it this way, two ways that I want to share.。
The first one is this.。
When we spend time in this intimacy with God, God actually reminds us of who he is.。
That he is the loving father.。
He is redeemer.。
He's rescuer.。
He's creator.。
He's almighty and powerful.。
And it puts God back into focus because he gets out of focus when we're rushing around。
and we're spinning like crazy and we lose focus of who God is.。
And so it puts God back into focus and reminds us of who he is。
and it gives us perspective on all of our lives, on all the stuff that's going on.。
And I have this quote from John Oswald that I want to share with you.。
He says this, "If we make God our focus, knowing he, the transcendent holy one, is in control of all things,。
then we can live in confidence in the sanctuary of his power and his love."。
And I love this.。
When we make God our focus, we can be confident and we can live in his place。
in the sanctuary, this peace of rest of his power and his love.。
And that means that as we make God our focus, we can start setting aside our anxieties。
and replace it with an awareness of the presence of God.。
That God is with us.。
You are not alone.。
He is right by your side.。
That he loves you and that he is powerful.。
He has power above everything.。
And so regardless of what challenge you're facing, regardless of what circumstances you're facing,。
you can live in the sanctuary of his power and his love.。
And I think that's a beautiful description of rest.。
That it doesn't matter where you're walking around, doesn't matter what circumstance you're in,。
you can live in the sanctuary of his power and his love because you know him。
and because he is the focus and the center of your life.。
Isn't that a beautiful picture? Am I the only one?。
Yeah.。
So that's the first thing.。
When we spend this time with God, we are renewed through that.。
But then that's not the only thing.。
We're also reminded of who we are.。
Now the external and internal pressures, they try to tell us all sorts of things about who we are.。
They try to tell you, you are not enough.。
You're not producing enough.。
If you only work a little bit more, if you only try a little bit harder, maybe one day you'll be okay.。
That's what internal, external pressure tells us.。
But when we spend our time with God, he speaks over you.。
You are my beloved child.。
You are my son, my daughter with whom I am well pleased.。
And so when we know our identity, our identity is not found in striving and accomplishing things。
and getting a million things done and being 10% more productive than last week。
and meeting more KPIs.。
God also just powerfully allows us to rest in our identity that he gives us.。
Not that other people try to give us or that we think we can somehow earn, but that's never stable.。
And so he renews you through that.。
And I believe he is speaking that over some of you even right now,。
just reminding you of your identity, that you are loved.。
You're not your performance or your lack of your performance.。
You are a beloved child of God.。
And he wants you to be able to find rest and peace in your identity in him.。
And then, of course, a final blessing of this renewal is just simply we get to enjoy,。
and that's a grace blessing, just be in relationship with God.。
We get to enjoy our relationship with God.。
Now, so how can we respond to this message?。
How can we start living in a sanctuary of his power and his love?。
Well, for one, you actually need to set aside time to rest and to spend unhurried time with God.。
So if you're not do that and you just keep doing what you're doing,。
your life's going to continue just to spin out of control,。
and there's going to be consequences, just like there was with me, right?。
Back problem, sitting on streets, laying on streets of Hong Kong,。
relationship problems, marriage problems,。
because you keep ignoring those things and just keep going in that cycle.。
So you need to schedule a time to rest and to connect with God.。
So right now, maybe that's the thing that you need to do.。
So when are you going to do it this week?。
So take out your calendar and actually put it in.。
Find that time, find that moment.。
Maybe it's during the week, maybe it's in the weekend.。
So that's for some of us what we need to do.。
But for others of us, rest is found in Jesus.。
So for one, all of us need to come to Jesus.。
But I want to right now speak specifically to those of you who actually don't know Jesus fully yet.。
And I want to give an opportunity to actually come to Jesus and to become a Christian.。
And it's easy to come to church.。
Sometimes we think coming to church makes us a Christian.。
Coming to church doesn't make you a Christian.。
Sometimes we grow up in a Christian country, and we feel like I'm a Christian because I grew up in this country.。
Growing up in a Christian country doesn't make you a Christian.。
Growing up in a Christian family does not make you a Christian.。
There comes this point in our lives where we have to make our own decision.。
Am I going to receive Jesus into my heart?。
Or am I going to cross that line?。
And so I want to give that opportunity to do that right now.。
And so what I'm going to do is I'm going to just in a simple way, I'm going to do the ABC, just an acronym.。
You know, we admit that we're sinners, that we're broken people, that we have this need for Jesus for His forgiveness.。
Believe that Jesus is Savior and Redeemer and Lord, that He died, that He rose.。
And then finally confess, confess that Jesus is your Lord.。
Not somebody else's, not your neighbor's, but your Lord.。
And so I'm going to lead you in a prayer.。
You can quietly pray it along in your heart, and you can become a Christian and take that step.。
So let me do this right now for us.。
I want to invite the worship team to come up as well.。
Jesus, thank you so much that you love me.。
I admit that I am a sinner, that I have done things that I know are wrong.。
That I've sinned against you, and I've sinned against other people.。
Please forgive me.。
And Jesus, I will now place my faith in you.。
I believe that you died on the cross for my sins, and that you rose again so that I can have new life and be forgiven.。
And so Jesus, I invite you in my heart right now.。
I confess that you are my Lord and my Savior.。
Will you come into my life?。
Will you fill me with your Holy Spirit?。
And I pray this in your name, Jesus.。
And all God's people said, Amen.。
Now if you've prayed this prayer, you know, God's Word says that if we can confess with our tongue that Jesus Christ is Lord, we are saved.。
You have crossed over.。
Now we still need to learn what that means, what it means to follow Jesus, and that's what we're here for as a community.。
But I would love to, if you've taken that step, I would love to hear from you about it, so I can encourage you and walk with you in that.。
So right now I want to invite all of us to stand, and I actually want to pray over all of us.。
So if you've been exhausted and you're tired, whether that's just through striving or maybe your external pressure,。
I just want to invite you to stretch out your hands just as a symbol of just wanting to receive from God.。
I just want to pray over you.。
Jesus, thank you so much that you are the one in whom we truly find rest.。
Thank you that you love every single person here, that you know every single person, you know what's going on, you know the challenges that they're facing.。
And I just pray right now that you will come, that you will meet them, that you release the peace of God over every single heart right now.。
That you renew us and refresh us with your Holy Spirit.。
Lord, I also pray for change.。
I pray for freedom, that you have set us free to live a different life, not a life of slavery anymore, but a life of freedom in you.。
So I pray if striving has been what's been driving us, Lord, I pray in the name of Jesus that the striving is broken right now.。
Thank you, Jesus.。
So I pray, Lord, that you make us a community that rests in you, that knows your peace, that knows your wholeness, that you restore us, that you refresh us and renew us.。
And that we can live differently because we know you.。
So we thank you, Jesus, for your work that you are doing right now.。
Thank you, Jesus.。
And I pray all that in your name.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Let's worship church.。
(gentle music)。
