You know, when we go on sabbatical, we're told to rest, retreat, revive, and to return.。
So they're like, "Do come back.。
You have time to think about everything, but we want you to come back."。
And so it's so good to be back.。
I was back last week, but now I'm back preaching this week.。
And yeah, I missed you, and I'm happy to be back.。
So that's a good thing, right?。
And also, I want to just give a shout out to my team.。
I'm so proud of them.。
They did such a wonderful job in my absence.。
It's like, basically, I'm not needed, you know?。
But I think it really just speaks of them, you know?。
And so I'm just grateful.。
And I want to give a special shout out to Pastor Ivan on that, who took on the leadership。
role and kind of oversaw the team.。
And he's not here.。
He's on vacation.。
He needed a vacation from my sabbatical.。
But so yeah, that's good.。
But anyhow, I want to share with you from 2018 something I experienced.。
I was flying with my German friend, Matthias, from Hong Kong to Tel Aviv, Israel.。
And usually when I'm on a flight, I'm super uncomfortable.。
There's a reason for it.。
I'm a tall guy, and I don't really fit good into the economy seats.。
That's usually where I sit.。
And my knees, they jam into the front, the seat in front of me.。
Sometimes, depending on what seat, the side might press on me as well.。
I can't stretch out my legs.。
I have to kind of weirdly contort them.。
And so I hate flying.。
I love getting to the destinations, but I hate flying.。
And so what I try to do is watch movies so I can forget about what's going on.。
Hopefully, they have good movies that will distract me, make that flight pass by faster.。
And I've even for a while, though I didn't have that recently, have had anxieties actually。
about flying.。
And it's not because I'm scared that the plane is going to crash.。
It's because I'm scared of sitting in the seat.。
You know?。
And so for me, this is a big deal.。
So here I am on my flight to Tel Aviv.。
You know what I usually do, but this time was different.。
And it's something I've never experienced before.。
I had this deep longing, but also just an awareness of a deep need in my life that I。
needed to draw close to Jesus, that I needed more of the presence of the Holy Spirit in。
my life.。
And so instead of watching movies, I plugged in my earphones and I was worshipping and。
I was praying the entire flight, which was like 10 hours or something like that.。
Now, I know I'm a pastor, but I don't usually pray and worship for 10 hours on a flight.。
I might do that for half an hour, maybe an hour.。
You know, so this is not my normal behavior.。
But there was just something really that God was doing.。
And I said yes to it, because I know I needed it.。
And so the best way I know how to explain it is like, I had just been, or actually I。
still was in the most difficult season of my life, where there was incredible pain of。
loss of relationship, job, home.。
There was disorientation.。
And I was just coming out of that.。
Jesus had met me.。
I had no way forward.。
He met me, helped me get out of a place where I was stuck.。
But I was still in need for him to do healing work in my life.。
I was still in need for more of his presence.。
Now, I wonder about you, if you experience the same thing or something similar that I。
experienced, where there is just an awareness of or longing that you're carrying, that you're。
holding, where you just know, man, I need God to work in this part of my life.。
I need a greater presence of the Holy Spirit in my life.。
I just desperately need it.。
For me, it was because there was brokenness, there was grieving, and no one could comfort。
me.。
My family, they loved me, but they couldn't comfort me.。
So I knew I needed to draw close to God.。
For you, maybe there's a need for forgiveness.。
Like sometimes we're just stuck in a mess, and we know what we're doing is wrong, and。
for whatever reason we can't stop it, and we just need Jesus.。
I need forgiveness.。
I need a greater holiness in my life.。
Like wholeness, not like holier than thou, but like just wholeness.。
Because there's just pain, there's brokenness, and I'm just doing things I don't want to。
do.。
Maybe there's addiction.。
We can be addicted to all sorts of things.。
Maybe it's addiction to the one that I wonder whether or not I'm addicted to, social media.。
Maybe there's social media addiction.。
Maybe there's addiction to alcohol.。
We like to drink alcohol when we have problems to kind of comfort our pain or take the edge。
off, you know, a tough day at work.。
Maybe there's addiction to pornography.。
Maybe there's addiction to your work, where you just can't stop working, even if it costs。
your family and your friends.。
And there is a need for freedom, for deliverance from oppression, for God to do something new,。
for the Holy Spirit to move in your life.。
Maybe there's a need for direction, where you're like, "I know that what I'm doing is。
not what God has for me, not who God created me to be, but I don't know what the purpose。
of my life is."。
And there's just a longing, "God, just can you just show me what your purpose for me。
is, what you have for me?"。
So it can be all sorts of things.。
You can fill in the blank.。
You know what need, what longing you're sitting with.。
You know that.。
And so what I want to do today with this message, I want to actually, for us to ask a question,。
and it's this question, what is that longing or need that you are carrying in your life。
right now where you need Jesus to meet you?。
Where you need a greater sense of his presence?。
Where do you need him?。
And so today we're taking a break from the Daniel sermon series for one week.。
Sorry.。
We're going to return to that next week.。
But I want to take you to the Gospel of John, and I want to set the scene for us.。
So it's the Feast of Tabernacles.。
It's one of the three great feasts in Judaism, and there is a buzz in the city of Jerusalem.。
There's people from all, even other nations, you know, coming to the Jewish diaspora, they're。
journeying to Jerusalem to celebrate this joyous feast, but there's also some tension。
in the air, and that tension revolves around Jesus.。
People are divided over his identity.。
Is he the Messiah?。
Is he the one that we're longing for and waiting for as a nation to bring deliverance, to do。
something new?。
Or is he a false teacher?。
As a matter of fact, some people did think he was a false teacher, and they were planning。
on killing him.。
So this is the atmosphere that's happening, and into this atmosphere, Jesus stands up。
and he has some words to speak that still matter to us today, that still speak to us。
today.。
So let me take you there.。
We're in John chapter 7.。
We're starting in verse 37.。
It says this, "On the last and greatest day of the festival, Jesus stood and said in a。
loud voice, 'Let anyone who is thirsty come to me and drink.。
Whoever believes in me, as scripture has said, rivers of living water will flow from within。
them.'。
But this he meant the spirit, whom those who believed in him were later to receive.。
Up to that time, the spirit had not been given, since Jesus had not yet been glorified."。
And hearing his words, some of the people said, "Surely this man is the prophet."。
Others said, "He's the Messiah."。
Still others asked, "How can the Messiah come from Galilee?。
Does not scripture say that the Messiah will be David's descendant from Bethlehem, the。
town where David lived?"。
Thus the people were divided because of Jesus.。
No one wanted to seize him, but no one laid a hand on him.。
So right, let's unpack this passage.。
It says that all of this is happening on the last and the greatest day of the Feast of。
Tabernacles.。
It's also sometimes called the Feast of Booth, so it has both names.。
Now what was this feast about?。
Well, I want to highlight one ceremony from that feast, and it was a water drawing ceremony.。
So the priests, they came from the temple, they went to Siloam, a pool, they got water,。
there was a procedure back, there's psalms being sung, there's scriptures read, and then。
they went around the altar and they poured, as worship, they poured water on the altar.。
And this ceremony and the symbolism of it was looking back, but it was also looking。
forward.。
It was looking back on Israel's wandering in the desert during the Exodus time, when。
they were dying, or they thought they were dying of thirst, and they're complaining,。
"Why did you lead us out of Egypt?。
Now we're just here and we're dying of thirst."。
So God told Moses to take the rod, to strike the rock, and out came gushing water, living。
water, and it saved the thirsty people.。
It was a deliverance.。
So they're celebrating this.。
They're celebrating this important occasion in their community's life.。
But they're also looking forward, because the prophets had been talking about a time。
when there would be waters flowing from Jerusalem, there would be waters flowing from the temple,。
and they would be watering the land, there would be a work of renewal, of restoration,。
of healing.。
Whatever the river touches brings life.。
So there's all sorts of scriptures.。
There's an Isaiah in Joel, and Ezekiel, and in Zechariah.。
And I want to read to you just one little verse from Zechariah that probably was read。
even during this festival.。
And it's from Zechariah 14, verse 8, and it says this, "On that day, living water will。
flow out from Jerusalem, half of it east to the Dead Sea, and half of it west to the Mediterranean。
Sea, in summer and in winter."。
So again, there's this symbolism in a place where there's not much water, of water flowing。
regularly and flowing in all directions, and bringing life and doing something new on that。
day, on that day when God acts decisively.。
And so there's this anticipation in this festival for the people, there's their longings.。
It's a nation that is longing for God to move in a greater and a more powerful way, and。
to bring restoration, to bring healing to a land, to a people that is hurting.。
And so this is what this watery ceremony on the Feast of Tamil Water expresses.。
This powerful symbolism, this celebration of God's deliverance, but also this looking ahead。
to this messianic time where God will act in a decisive way.。
And on the last day of the festival, the greatest day, they did the seven times.。
So imagine the seven times coming to end, they're pouring the water on the altar, and。
there's these expectations that people are holding, there's this longing from the people,。
and Jesus stands up, and he says in a loud voice, actually it can also be translated,。
he cried out, "Let anyone who's thirsty come to me and drink.。
Whoever believes in me, as scripture has said, rivers of living water will flow from within。
them."。
Now I don't know about you, but I wish I could have been there that day.。
I could have been in that crowd, I could have been there at this moment.。
Jesus was saying, "That longing that you're expressing through this festival, I am the。
fulfillment of that.。
The thirst that you're experiencing where you need God to meet you, I am the one who。
can meet that thirst.。
The Messiah that you're waiting for, it's me.。
I am the fulfillment of this festival.。
I am the one who can truly quench this thirst that nothing else has been able to quench."。
Now just think about this.。
What a weighty statement for anyone to make.。
But of course Jesus is not anyone.。
He is the son of God who can truly quench our thirst.。
And we can see that people understood what he was saying by the way they're processing。
what Jesus just has declared and invited people into.。
So we can look at verse 40 through 44.。
There it talks about all these different reactions, right?。
He's a prophet, he's a Messiah.。
I don't think he can be the Messiah because he wasn't born and he's from Nazareth.。
They didn't know he was actually born in Bethlehem.。
Or they want to arrest him.。
I mean, that is a strong reaction to words that somebody speaks.。
But it's because they are so weighty.。
Because what Jesus says is so profound.。
And Jesus' invitation still stands today.。
Let anyone who is thirsty come to me.。
It doesn't say let those who have their lives together come to me.。
It doesn't say that those who are living good moral lives and are being good little people。
come to me.。
You know, anyone who thirsts.。
So the requirements basically just acknowledging you have a need.。
There's a desperation in your heart and your life for Jesus to meet you.。
For a cup of water, for a drink.。
That's it.。
But sometimes the simple things, they sound so simple.。
Oh yeah, you just admit your need and you get a drink.。
But they're not that simple for us a lot of times, right?。
For me, as we were planting the church, it was before we started having any services,。
I was playing down some sin in my life.。
Just like, "Oh, it's not a big deal.。
Everybody would think this is an issue, blah, blah, blah."。
So basically I'm deceiving myself.。
I'm just like, "Oh, you know, I don't have a need.。
I'm okay."。
So we can deceive ourselves about our thirst.。
And I actually had to confess my sin.。
Say, "Jesus, will you come in this area of my life?。
Will you help me to clean this up?。
Because I need you.。
I need your mercy.。
I need your grace in this area of my life."。
And actually I knew that God was preparing me to pastor you all, but that something needed。
to be sorted out.。
Now, no pastor's perfect.。
There's still sin and issues in my life, like every person.。
But it was something that God wanted me to sort out, and I had to admit it.。
I had to admit that I'm thirsty, that I'm needy.。
So a lot of times we're prideful or we're in denial and we don't want to admit it.。
So that's the first thing that kind of hinders us from actually coming to Jesus.。
Just saying, "Jesus, I need you."。
The second thing is that we actually really struggle to believe that Jesus is the one。
who can quench our thirst.。
We think that there's other things who can quench our thirst.。
We think that if only I had more money, if I had a relationship, if I would achieve greater。
things, then this thirst would be quenched in my life.。
If only I had more money, I would have peace of mind, I wouldn't have to have anxiety.。
If only I was in this relationship, I would finally feel whole, because I'm somewhat feeling。
not 100% right.。
If only I would achieve more and I would reach this position, then people would accept me,。
would love me.。
So we believe what surrounding culture tells us and models to us.。
And we believe that over that Jesus is the source of living water who can truly quench。
our thirst.。
Now these other things, they can do a little something for us.。
It's not like they don't do anything.。
That's not true.。
But they never fully deliver.。
They always leave us hanging dry.。
And even as Christians, we struggle to believe that.。
We believe in those other things, but we don't or not always believe that Jesus is the one。
that can actually quench our thirst.。
So if you want change and transformation in your life, if you want your thirst to be quenched,。
you have to admit that you have a thirst.。
Jesus is inviting anyone who is thirsty to come to him.。
But we have to admit it.。
We have to bring it to him, not think we can deal with it on our own or think something。
else will fulfill that.。
Now drinking the water is actually believing or trusting in Jesus.。
Now a lot of times we think of belief, trust, faith.。
We think of this like perfect, you know, we need to have this perfectly when I come to。
Jesus.。
But actually Jesus can work with very little.。
If you come and you pray to him, that actually is an act of faith.。
That actually is an act of trust.。
And he will meet you.。
He will work in your life when you bring whatever is going on to him.。
Now in verse 39, John, the gospel writer, he explains a little bit more of what he says.。
He says, "But this he meant the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were later to receive.。
Up to that time the Spirit had not been given, since Jesus had not yet been glorified."。
So the first thing is when it talks about this water, it's talking about the Holy Spirit。
that Jesus gives us to drink.。
You know, it's a Spirit, the Holy Spirit that we receive when we believe, when we repent。
of our sins, we place our trust in him, and we become Christians.。
The Spirit, the Holy Spirit lives within us.。
We are his children.。
We cross over from death to life, we're born again.。
You know, that's what this is talking about.。
But it also is talking about, you know, Jesus, he loves pouring out his Spirit into our lives.。
And the Bible talks about the filling of the Holy Spirit, you know, that we can have an。
experience of presence of the Holy Spirit in greater measure.。
So it's like both of these things is what's going on here.。
But a lot of times, so this passage, you know, one of the main focuses is salvation.。
It's becoming a Christian.。
And then if you have not done that, this is really the most important step for you to。
take.。
You know, and the way we become a Christian, there's two things that the New Testament。
talks about.。
It's repentance and it's faith.。
Repentance means I say, "Jesus, I am sorry for sinning against you, for hurting other。
people.。
Will you forgive me?"。
And then the second thing is, you know, faith.。
So, "Jesus, I trust you.。
Will you come into my life?。
Will you fill me with your Spirit and teach me what it means to now live for you?"。
And so this is the invitation.。
But there is a second aspect in this text as well.。
And we see that in verse 38.。
And a lot of times, you know, when we preach on these texts, we stop at becoming a Christian.。
But I want to also talk about this other part.。
And it says that rivers of living water will flow from within them.。
You know, when we become a Christian, the Holy Spirit is poured out on us.。
And it's described as rivers of living water flowing from within them.。
So it means it flows out.。
It doesn't stay where it is.。
And this is not something that happens, you know, this is a one-time thing.。
This is an ongoing thing.。
But I wonder, you know, are there rivers of living water right now flowing from within。
your life?。
Is the Holy Spirit bubbling over in your life?。
You know, because a lot of times I think it's like a little trickle.。
It's not rivers of living water.。
It's like a little trickle.。
You know, but Jesus, He pours out His Spirit, you know, so that we can be a blessing to。
others.。
So whatever God does to work in our lives, yes, it is to meet our needs.。
And He cares about our needs.。
And He will meet them and He will provide.。
But it always also goes beyond that.。
That because of this work that He does in our lives, it will bubble over, it will flow。
over to touch other people's lives.。
And so here's an important truth.。
Revived lives revive others.。
You know, if your life is revived, it will revive others.。
Jesus doesn't want His goodness to stop with us.。
He doesn't want His goodness to find a dead end in us.。
He wants it to flow through us.。
He wants rivers of living water stirring within us.。
Yes, meeting us in our needs, giving us the grace, the mercy, the strength, the comfort,。
the love, whatever it is we need.。
But He also wants to work and flow through you.。
So Jesus, not only does He give us this living water, give us the Spirit when we become a。
Christian, but He loves pouring out His Spirit as we are followers of Jesus in an ongoing。
way.。
And we can ask Him for it.。
He loves doing it.。
He loves doing it.。
Now, earlier I actually didn't finish my story of riding in the plane.。
I had this longing, I had this desire of more of Jesus.。
I'm worshiping in this really uncomfortable space, but I forgot about that.。
And that actually continued when I was in Israel, like in the mornings, in the evenings.。
I love that time of worship, of prayer, of reading Scripture.。
And then when I came back, it also continued.。
It was just this longing and this need for the presence of the Holy Spirit, for Jesus。
to meet me.。
And so I was at home, I was reading a book that an acquaintance of mine wrote, and she。
writes a book on prayer, and writes about the Holy Spirit and prayer.。
And so as I was reading this, I'm sitting in the room in quietness, and the Holy Spirit。
just poured out over me in a way I hadn't experienced before.。
And just a great sense of His love, and there was just a deep awareness of His presence。
and also of His healing work.。
And it was really special, really personal.。
I'm also not sharing all the details.。
And it's easy to highlight these moments, these mountaintop moments.。
That was a mountaintop moment for me.。
But actually, what I was going through was a season.。
Because it was a whole season where the Holy Spirit was working and renewing my heart,。
and bringing comfort and healing to brokenness.。
And honestly, after what I experienced, it was trauma, because I didn't see it coming.。
It was unexpected.。
And so there were things that were triggering me, where I can be in a conversation with。
something and somehow something gets triggered, and I'm starting to feel physical pain in。
my body, and I know in my mind it doesn't make any sense, but I'm experiencing it.。
You know, and I'm shaking up, and I can't even function normally.。
I mean, that's when I first came to the Vine, that's where I was at.。
That's what I was experiencing.。
You know, but Jesus, and in the presence of the Holy Spirit, He healed that trauma.。
You know, it's amazing.。
Praise Jesus.。
But not only that, He also gave me a greater faith than I ever had before.。
Like the crisis I went through, I had nothing.。
I was a pastor at the time, I didn't have the faith to go through that crisis.。
I didn't have it.。
And again, when we don't have it, we come to Jesus, "Jesus, I need you."。
And so He, you know, through work, and again, this is a season, not a one moment, He gave。
me a greater faith where I got to know God in a new way.。
That He was much bigger than I knew He was.。
That He was more powerful than I knew He was.。
That He was much more loving, much more present than I knew He was.。
That was amazing.。
So I experienced personal renewal, and one way that we can, or another way to describe。
that is actually talking about personal revival.。
So I want to say a little bit about revival.。
So it can be personal revival, it can be community revival, it can be nationwide revival, and。
national revival.。
But one characteristic of revival is that it's not one moment.。
It's actually a season where the Holy Spirit is poured out in a special way.。
So that's the first thing.。
And then the second thing is that this outpouring of the Holy Spirit, the season, that it brings。
us, it's transformative.。
After that season, we're not the same people anymore.。
You know, there is a new normal.。
When God does a work in your life, there is a new normal.。
He doesn't leave us where we're at.。
He does something new, something beautiful, something good.。
And that's a mark of true revival.。
And as I was praying over us and thinking of what to share when I come back from sabbatic,。
I just really sensed that we're being invited for Jesus to bring personal revival in our。
lives.。
You know, that he wants to revive what is dead and make it alive, revive what is broken。
and bring newness and wholeness to it.。
Now we can't force it, but we can ask for it.。
God loves when we become thirsty, when we tell him where we need him to work and meet。
us in our lives.。
Now one thing that was so encouraging for me, on my trip, so I was on my sabbatical。
in Germany, in Hong Kong, in the US, my last thing that I was in the US, and I visited。
my host brother.。
I lived with him in high school, my senior year, you know, rooming together then, and。
then I was, my first three years in university, he was my roommate.。
So I hadn't seen him in 10 years.。
And he, after a week of spending time with each other, he's like, "Tim, you're not the。
same person anymore."。
And it was not a negative, like, "Oh my gosh, you're not the same person anymore.。
What happened to you?。
What did he do to you in Hong Kong?"。
No, it was like, "You're a different person."。
You know, he could tell.。
It's this transformative work that God has done.。
He has met me in my need.。
He has met me in my brokenness.。
He has met me in my pain.。
You know, and he can do that.。
He can do it for me.。
He can do it for you.。
And as I was praying over us also this week, I just sensed that, you know, a lot of us,。
we need a new normal.。
Whatever's going on is not working.。
We need the Holy Spirit to pour over our lives and do a new, a transformative work.。
And so I want to invite the worship team to come up.。
And I, in a very simple way, but we also know it's not that simple, just invite you to actually。
express your need, your longings that you are holding, that you are carrying in your。
heart.。
Maybe areas of pain or even maybe it's disappointment in yourself.。
You're frustrated with yourself.。
I just want to invite you to bring that to Jesus.。
Say, "Jesus, I'm thirsty.。
I need more of you in my life.。
I need you to meet me because I can't do it.。
I'm at my wits' end.。
Will you meet me?"。
And also just sense that we're invited to pray, "Holy Spirit, come.。
Will you surround us with your presence?。
Will you fill us, Holy Spirit?"。
So we can just pray for this outpouring of the Holy Spirit.。
So as the worship team is going to gently play over us, I want to invite you to pray。
right now, just to come to Jesus and just to cry out to him to express the longing of。
your heart.。
And just say, "Jesus, I need you.。
Holy Spirit, I need you in my life.。
Will you meet me?。
Will you give me that water, that drink?。
Will you quench my thirst?"。
Because he's the only one who can do it.。
So I encourage you to express it on your own in prayer, but you're also welcome to turn。
to somebody and just pray with them.。
So let's lean into that right now.。
And I'm going to just start us off with a prayer, but you continue with your own prayers.。
So Holy Spirit, come.。
Lord, we are desperate.。
We need you.。
We need you in our lives.。
They're part of our lives that are dead.。
Will you come and revive us?。
There is pain that's just too much for us to carry.。
Will you come and heal that pain?。
There is hopelessness where we've given up.。
Will you revive that hope?。
There's addiction.。
Will you break that power of addiction of our lives?。
Will you remove us and give us freedom?。
Thank you, Jesus.。
Thank you, Jesus.。
Let's continue to pray.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
