For your glory, Lord Jesus.。
And everyone says, "Amen."。
Amen.。
Hey, can we thank our worship team as always?。
Thank you guys so much.。
Have a seat.。
You know, I think it's pretty clear and beautiful that God is doing something new amongst us。
here at the Vine.。
It's something that we've been sensing over the last number of weeks.。
And what I want to do today is actually lean into that a little bit and talk to you a little。
bit about what I think some of this new thing is that God is doing amongst us.。
And in two weeks' time, we're going to have Vision Sunday on the 2nd of March, as Carla。
shared earlier.。
And on that Sunday, I want to actually put a lot more flesh around the bones of what。
we're sensing the Holy Spirit wants to do in and through the life of the Vine in the。
year ahead.。
So I'm really excited about that.。
But as I was preparing my heart for the message for Vision Sunday, I felt like the Lord said。
there's something that needs to be said before we get there.。
And so today, I wanted to take a time, just as a one-off message, to teach around something。
that I feel is important to prepare us for Vision Sunday, but also is a reflection of。
this new thing that I think God is doing amongst us right now.。
And we've been saying here at the Vine that what God is calling us to this year is a year。
of action.。
That He's calling us to be a church, to be people, to be individuals who live our faith。
much more publicly in the year ahead.。
What I want to do today is tell you why I think that is the case.。
Why I think God is taking us from a year of intimacy last year to a year of action this。
year, and in doing that, prepare our hearts for what God's going to say to us in two weeks'。
time.。
I think it's really important to understand that the Scriptures always connect the activity。
of God to the worship and proclamation of His glory.。
There's always a connection between when God does something and the response of His people。
in the glorification and the worship of Him.。
When God moves, God's people respond.。
When God speaks, God's people declare.。
When God's presence is here, God's people worship.。
One of the beautiful things about the Vine over almost 30 years now that the Vine has。
been going here in Hong Kong is that we have been incredibly blessed by moments of worship.。
In fact, I would say, and I've been around pretty much since the beginning, I would say。
that pretty much every single Sunday, God shows up in some form, His presence in some。
form in our worship.。
One of the things that we can honor is the fact that God has often used the Vine in a。
place of worship.。
In fact, in our newcomers' nights, when we hold those as a church, we always ask people,。
"Why is it that you come to the Vine?"。
I would say nine times out of ten, people will say, "Well, we're here because of the。
worship.。
We love the worship.。
When we come in here, it's not just about the music that's played and the skill of our。
team," although, of course, they have skill.。
People's reflection is, "When I come to the Vine, I feel God's presence.。
I sense God is here.。
I encounter God's presence when I'm here in this place."。
That's a beautiful thing.。
God has magnified, I think, through the gift of worship here at the Vine over some 30 years,。
his presence among us.。
Now, there's a danger to that, though.。
The danger to that is that we think, therefore, that that is what worship is.。
That worship is, therefore, coming to a building with a group of people to sing some songs。
and encounter the presence of God.。
We come to think that worship is primarily defined by this idea of something that happens。
for 90 minutes as we gather together as Christians, fellow believers, in a closed environment,。
and we think that that's worship.。
And so we talk to each other about, "Oh, I can't wait to go to worship this Sunday."。
Does that make sense?。
And we begin to think that this gathering and what happens here is the totality of what。
it is to experience the presence of God.。
And here's the thing.。
If we're really going to be a church that is going to take our faith much more seriously。
and begin to live out our faith much more publicly in the year ahead, we cannot do so。
until we redefine how we think about worship from an experience in a room to a lifestyle。
in the world.。
Our worship has to be not just an experience in a room, but it has to be a lifestyle that。
we're living out there in the world.。
And we love the experience in the room.。
And here at The Vine, we're going to continue to lean into that.。
We're going to continue to invest our resources and our heart and our prayers so that when。
we gather here, we do experience the presence of God.。
But what we have to realize is that this gathering and this experience of the presence of God。
is only one part of what worship truly is.。
In fact, what we do in this room is actually more a modern day thing than it is a biblical。
thing.。
That does not mean it's wrong or bad.。
It's amazing to gather like this, and we love to gather like this, and we will continue。
to gather like this.。
But when the Scriptures think of worship, when the Scriptures speak about worship, they。
speak about something much grander and broader and more holistic and more a complete lifestyle。
than some songs sung behind closed doors with people.。
If I could say it clearly, I would say this.。
I think one of the new things that God is saying amongst us is that maybe our worship。
and ultimately our faith is far too private.。
Far too private.。
And what I want to say to us here this morning is why I think God is saying we need to shift。
from a private embrace of faith to a much more public walking out of faith.。
And to do so, I want to base it in one of my favorite Psalms, Psalm 40.。
I'm just going to read the first three verses of this incredible Psalm.。
If you haven't read Psalm 40 in its entirety, you can do so later today.。
I would encourage you to do so because it expands on the themes I'm talking about this。
morning.。
But I want to just focus in on the first three verses.。
Psalm 40 says this, "I waited patiently for the Lord and He turned to me and He heard。
my cry.。
He lifted me out of the slimy pit, out of the mud and the mire, and He set my feet on。
a rock.。
He gave me a firm place to stand.。
He put a new song in my mouth, a hymn of praise to our God.。
He will see and fear and put their trust in the Lord."。
I love what David's doing here.。
The Psalm is appropriated to David.。
Whether actually David wrote it or not, we don't know.。
But let's just assume that it did, that he did write this Psalm.。
It says that he did.。
So let's just take that as truth.。
So I love what David's doing here.。
He's writing into the church.。
He's writing this beautiful poem, this song that would be sung.。
And he's basically saying, "Look, you need to understand what happened in my life."。
He's like, "Things haven't always been great.。
There have been seasons of trial and difficulty, and there have been seasons where I've had。
to wait on the Lord."。
He describes what's happening in his life here as like a slimy, slippery pit.。
And in this beautiful kind of poetic language, he says, "I waited on the Lord.。
The Lord turned to me.。
He heard my cry."。
And he says, "He lifts me out of a place of slipperiness, and He places me on a solid。
ground."。
So this beautiful kind of metaphor and imagery behind where David was saying, "I was slipping.。
I was losing faith.。
Things were overwhelming to me, but I was waiting patiently for the Lord."。
I love this.。
He's like, "I still had hope.。
Even though things were really hard, I was patiently waiting for God to come."。
I must have prayed for over 50 people over the three services last week personally, laying。
my hands on, having a conversation and prayer with about 50 people on Sunday last week.。
Beautiful.。
And I think every single person, I think they would kind of reveal what David is saying。
here.。
They would say, "Hey, I'm in a hard situation.。
Things are not going how I want them to go, but I have faith.。
I have hope.。
And I'm coming forward right now for prayer because I believe that God can change my situation."。
And I love for David how he's saying, "Things are really slippery and bad, but I'm waiting。
patiently."。
And then he declares, this is his testimony, and I believe for the 50 people I prayed for,。
for like the whole church that we as a staff and leaders all prayed for last week, our。
prayer is that you will also turn into a testimony of how God comes, acts, responds, and changes。
things.。
And David gives this glory here right at the start of the psalm and says, "God changed。
my situation from slipperiness to solid ground."。
But notice this.。
He doesn't just say that God has changed my circumstance.。
What he's ultimately saying is God has changed me.。
He's saying God hasn't just done something where he's taken me out of a hard time into。
a new time.。
He's actually changed something so profoundly inside of me that I am now a different person.。
This is what verse three is about.。
Verse one and two, he's laying out the situation, but in verse three, he's saying, "There has。
been a profound change within me, and because there is something that has changed in me,。
I cannot help but proclaim what it is that God has done inside of me."。
Let me read verse three again to you.。
He says, "He's put a new song in my mouth, a hymn of praise to our God.。
Many will see and fear and put their trust in the Lord."。
I want to step you through this verse, and I'm going to unpack it in detail with you。
bit by bit.。
The first thing he says is he's put a new song, a new song.。
It's this beautiful thought for David that because God has come and done what God has。
done, there's something now inside of him that was not there before.。
He describes it as this new song.。
Now, in the Greek New Testament, now this is the Old Testament written in Hebrew, in。
the Greek New Testament, there are two Greek words for the word new.。
There's neos, which basically means something new from something that was old, so like the。
idea of restoring an old thing.。
And then there's this word kainos, which we also translate new in our New Testament, but。
that word in the Greek actually literally means something new that has never existed。
before.。
So it's a brand new thing, not just a new thing polished up from something old, but。
something completely new.。
Now although this is of course written in the Hebrew, in the Greek Roman Empire when。
they actually came to write the Old Testament in Greek, it's called the LXX, that's the。
name for this Greek Old Testament.。
The word they chose to describe the new here is the word kainos.。
So what they're saying is that David is basically exhorting to his people that God has done。
something in him that has never been done before.。
This is not a new thing of like, "Hey, he's taken some of my old things and polished them。
up and tried to make them better."。
He's saying, "No, what's inside of me, this song that is inside of me is completely and。
utterly brand new.。
And then because it's so brand new, I want to bring a proclamation, an explanation.。
I want to tell about it because it's something completely that has never happened to me ever。
before."。
I love the fire and the passion that is inside of him.。
Now notice what he says.。
He says, "He put the new song in me."。
I like this.。
He didn't say, "I earned the new song."。
"Oh, I prayed hard and I deserve the new song."。
He says, "You have to understand that God, even though I was waiting patiently, I was。
hopeful as so many of you were last week.。
I'm hopeful for change, but it's God who's responded.。
It's God who's acted.。
It's God who's done the new thing.。
He's the one who's put it inside of me."。
And it's important for David to express this to Israel, to express that this testimony。
has come from God because he doesn't want Israel to think that they can earn the new。
thing.。
And one of the things that we at the Vine have to be really careful with as God continues。
to do a new thing amongst us is that we begin to think, "Oh, this is because of 30 years。
of faithful service to Hong Kong.。
Oh, this is because we're doing some really good things.。
Oh, this is because everybody's leaning into worship.。
Oh, this is because we're praying some pretty desperate prayers."。
And all of those things are helpful in our ongoing discipleship of being with Jesus,。
but we have to understand that the new thing God is doing amongst us is His prerogative.。
It's His sovereignty.。
It's His decision.。
He's put it in us.。
The danger we have is that when we see the new thing that's happening and we connect。
it to ourselves, what we come to think is not worship but worth it.。
Are you with me, church?。
And our worship actually is diminished because we think we're worth it.。
And we have to make sure that we're linking ourselves in this very clear thought.。
It is not our song, it is His.。
It's not our song, it is His.。
I wanted to take a moment just to really honor Emma and Jethro and the worship leaders and。
the worship staff and team here at the Vine because I know personally that the platform。
and a platform ministry is very seductive.。
It's very seductive to pride.。
It's very seductive to getting a big head and thinking that you're responsible for all。
this stuff.。
There's a lot of stress and pressure that comes on a platform type ministry.。
And I think one of the reasons why we're seeing such a response amongst you in a place of。
worship is because I honestly have seen Emma and Jethro not on stage but off the stage.。
I've seen the hours and the time that they put into praying and walking with people in。
our church to fostering a humility.。
And I believe that one of the reasons why God is doing a new thing is because they've。
committed themselves to going, "That's not our song, it's His."。
It's not about us, it's about Him.。
He's doing something, we need to respond to what He is doing.。
He's put it here.。
And our role is to steward what He's put, not to think that we've earned it or we deserve。
it.。
And I think as we hold on to that, we become the most authentic versions of ourselves that。
we can be.。
Your worship will always be the most authentically glorifying when you constantly remind yourself。
that it's not your song, it's His.。
Come on, church.。
That's when our worship becomes the most authentically glorifying because we know it's got nothing。
to do with us.。
Are you with me?。
So there's a new thing that God is doing here at the Vine.。
There's a new song and He has put it in us.。
Now I want you to see what He then says.。
He says, "He has put this new song," notice this, "in my mouth."。
The first thing He says here, I want you to see, He said, "My mouth."。
He doesn't say, "God has done this new thing and He's put a new song in our mouths."。
He didn't say, "He's put a new song in Israel's mouth."。
He actually says, "No, the new song, it's in my mouth."。
In other words, I have a personal connection to the new thing that God is doing.。
He's just said in verses 1 and 2, His testimony of what God's doing.。
He's saying, "It's in my mouth."。
And here's what I'm convinced.。
If the Vine is really going to be a church that's going to move into action with the。
gospel in our city, it's only going to happen when every single one of us in the church。
goes, "I've got a song in my mouth."。
This is not about Andrew's vision.。
This is not about some worship team and what they do.。
This is not about the fact that I'm just showing up on a Sunday and I guess I'm a part of the。
Vine.。
No, I'm taking responsibility for the gospel that's in me.。
It's in my mouth.。
Oh, what's the new song that He has put in your mouth to sing?。
That's the primary question you should be asking yourself in a year when God's calling。
the church into action.。
What is it that you've got to sing in our city of Hong Kong this year?。
And I want to be really clear with this.。
This is really important.。
Somebody else's song is not your new song to sing.。
Somebody else's song is not your new song to sing.。
Now that doesn't mean that we can't be moved to worship because of somebody else's testimony.。
Of course we can.。
We saw this last week in our services.。
At the start of each of our services last week, we asked somebody in the congregation。
to testify to what God had done in their lives and as they testified, everybody was called。
into worship.。
It was a profound thing.。
We often worship off the back of somebody else's testimony.。
That's a legitimate, valid, great thing.。
But I think the thing that God is really calling us to this year is to say that somebody else's。
song shouldn't be the foundation or the basis to every part of my worship.。
Now I have a song.。
He's done something in me.。
The gospel has been personal to me.。
It's changed something in my life and if I do not open my mouth and sing, the world。
will not hear the unique thing that Christ has done for me.。
It's in my mouth.。
That's a responsibility of that, which is funny because David's just said, "It's God's。
song."。
But then he said, "Because it's God's song doesn't mean I'm devoid of responsibility.。
God has decided in his sovereignty to put that song in my mouth."。
So I have a decision.。
Notice that decision is highlighted because he says, "In my mouth."。
I love this.。
I don't know about you, but I think it would have been maybe sensible for David to say,。
"God has placed a new song in my heart."。
Wouldn't that make theological sense?。
That kind of makes more sense to me.。
Like God has placed it in my heart.。
But he doesn't say that.。
He doesn't say it's in my heart.。
He says it's in my mouth because I think David is trying to challenge Israel.。
I think God is trying to challenge us at the vine to realize that if David has said, "It's。
in my heart," what he's basically saying is, "It's a private thing for me.。
It's in my heart.。
It's changed me inside."。
It's like Mary who experiences the activities of God and scripture says, "She hides them。
in her heart."。
David's not saying that.。
He's saying, "No, no.。
It's not in my heart.。
It might be in my heart.。
It's changed my heart.。
It's changed.。
But it's in my mouth."。
This thing that God is doing that I have a personal responsibility for because it's happened。
to me, he says, "I need to proclaim it.。
It's in my mouth because it's not something that should be private.。
It's something that should be public.。
It's something that I should say or act or do or be.。
It's something that needs to be shown in the world.。
If it was just in my heart, then fine.。
It's private.。
It's for me.。
I need to wrestle with it."。
No, he's put it in my mouth because there's something publicly that he wants me to do。
with the song that he's placed in me.。
Follow this?。
"It's in my mouth," he's saying.。
And I think that's so profound because so often we wrestle with this.。
Here's the thing I think I personally wrestle with.。
I get so used to making my faith so private that I think my mouth has lost its muscle。
memory.。
And I wonder whether that's the reality for many of us, that we become so used to our。
faith being so private and personal to us and so good for us that we've actually lost。
the ability to speak in the public realm about what it is that Christ has done in us.。
And it's not in our mouths.。
It's just in our hearts.。
The Bible says out of the heart, the mouth speaks.。
So what's here needs to come out here.。
And I think David's emphasizing that.。
Here's some reasons why I think we've lost our muscle memory of our mouths.。
I think sometimes we're afraid to say the things that God has done in us.。
And that's understandable.。
It's a scary thing at times.。
But that fear can actually hold us back from having the courage to be a proclaimer of the。
things that God has done in our lives.。
I think the other reason why we don't speak or live or act in public the way we might。
in private is because we've seen other Christians do such a bad job of it.。
And the last thing we want to do is join the chorus of Bible bashes, people who are smacking。
people on the head with the Bible.。
The last thing we want to do is take that loud hailer and scream at people.。
The last thing we want to do is become like a street corner prophet.。
And because we've seen such bad examples of how people have tried to exclaim their faith,。
we're like, "I'm just going to live this private faith because I want to distance myself.。
I don't want to join in with these other people."。
Just because some people have done it badly doesn't mean it's a bad thing to do.。
Just because some people have made the name of Christ bad doesn't mean Christ's name is。
bad.。
And perhaps what is happening here at the church is God is lighting a fire amongst us。
to be more creative, more interesting, more wise, more subtle, more bold, more just revolutionary。
in how we think about presenting the gospel because it's in me, it's in my mouth, it's。
personal.。
I have a testimony.。
I want to say it.。
Oh, he's put it there so that others might know.。
Which is why he then says this.。
He then says, here's what he's put in my mouth.。
He says, "A hymn of praise to our God."。
The Hebrew here, the theme, the kind of topic that he's talking about is this idea of hallelujah.。
And the word hallelujah is a word that gets repeated a lot in the Old Testament in particular.。
We sing it in our songs today, but I think we often misunderstand what the word hallelujah。
is about.。
The word hallelujah literally means praise God.。
But when we come to think of it in our modern context, we often think that it's a exclamation.。
Praise God!。
Like we think it's like a God is awesome kind of thing.。
That's what we think.。
And we actually use often in our modern worship songs, we actually use the word hallelujah。
as this like, kind of like, woohoo, God is awesome kind of thing.。
And therefore it becomes a very Christian word, right?。
It becomes a very private to Christians word.。
Actually the word hallelujah in the Hebrew, in the original way that it's written, it。
does mean praise God, but it's a command, not an exclamation.。
So it's not, "Woohoo, praise God!"。
It's praise God.。
That's what hallelujah means.。
It doesn't mean, "Woohoo!"。
It means, "Get off your butt and praise God."。
That's the English Andrew translation of the Hebrew word.。
Get off your butt and praise God.。
That's what it means.。
In other words, when you read it in the Old Testament, people of God are challenging one。
another to be public with their faith.。
To not just hide it privately inside of themselves, but to say something that matters in the world.。
Get up and praise God!。
Go into your office tomorrow and praise God.。
Go live a life that shows the grace of God, that shows that God has done something inside。
of you.。
So when he says it, he's put a hymn of praise in my mouth.。
He's not just doing a proclamation, he's doing an invitation.。
He's saying, "Here's what it is that God has done for me in my life, and here's how you。
could experience a God just like that."。
It's a proclamation and an invitation.。
That's the word hallelujah.。
Hallelujah, hallelujah, hallelujah, hallelujah.。
Now notice how he wraps this up as I wrap this up.。
He says this, we're not going to do that at the 11.。
He says this.。
That's going to totally get cut.。
I know, and put on like a loop somewhere.。
Okay.。
So he says this, he says, "Many will see and fear and put their trust in the Lord."。
This is David saying, "Here's the result of what happens when we take our faith from a。
private thing to a public thing."。
He says, "Many will see and fear and put their trust in the Lord."。
Now notice what he says here, because the more natural thing for him to say, he's just。
been talking about the mouth.。
He's been talking about a song.。
He's been talking about singing.。
The more natural thing for David to write here is, he's put this thing, "And many will。
hear and fear and put their trust in the Lord."。
He doesn't say that.。
This is weird.。
Like if you follow the logic, he should say, "Many will hear here."。
He doesn't say it.。
He says, "Many will see."。
And what he's challenging himself, and I think Israel with, is that when we proclaim the。
name of Jesus, we got to be careful not just to say some things and live in a different。
way.。
We got to be careful not just to speak out something and live a lifestyle that's completely。
different.。
But actually, what will truly cause people to fear the Lord and put their trust in Him。
is when you live the things that come out of your mouth.。
When they see the new song that is inside of you, not hear the new song that's inside。
of you.。
When they actually begin to see you living in such a way that they cannot deny the reality。
that God has stepped in and changed this person's life.。
"Oh, I remember the old Andrew.。
But now I see the new Andrew, and something has happened to that Andrew."。
Are you with me?。
Or whatever it might be for you.。
David said, "God has put this new thing that He's never done before, and He's put it inside。
of my mouth because He wants me to proclaim it.。
But I recognize that if I'm just proclaiming it, and I'm not living in it, I'm not embracing。
it, it's not changing how I act and think, how I purchase, how I consume, how I think。
more justly.。
It's not acting, it's not impacting my generosity, or the ways in which I'm speaking and teaching。
people, or the ways in which I'm walking with people, or the ways in which I'm just living。
more graciously and more loving.。
If it's not doing that, then it's not doing anything," he's saying.。
Because people will fear and trust and put their hope in the Lord when they see the reality。
of God's work in this world.。
See, when the church begins to live publicly the complete redemption that has happened。
inside of them privately, when they actually show the world the love of Jesus and not just。
speak of it, when they actually lay their lives down and not just talk about a God who。
has done so, then many will see and fear and put their trust in the Lord.。
And I think the great question that God is asking the vine this year is simply this,。
if we're really going to put our faith into action this year, can people see our worship。
as much as they can hear our worship?。
Can you see the new song?。
This is the why of why I think God is calling us into this year of action, because 92% of。
the people in this city don't know Jesus.。
92% of the people that we're living around every day don't know Jesus, and we love to。
gather on a Sunday.。
I love to gather like this and to worship like this.。
But what I'm more excited about this year is that we would continue to gather like this。
and continue to experience the amazing things, but then we would realize that God has put。
a new song in our mouths personally, and we would dedicate ourselves to living that out。
in the places where we're spending the majority of our time.。
And that if the church could truly begin to see and show the new song that is placed inside。
of them, then I think that statistic of that 92% could actually change in our lifetime.。
Yeah, thank you.。
In our lifetime, it could actually change.。
And that we would realize that actually what Christ is doing here is not for here, it's。
for there.。
Can you stand with me?。
I'd love to pray for you.。
Father, I just thank you so much for each of us and for this community of believers。
that call this church their home.。
Father, I thank you for the beauty that is in the gospel, and that we see just a small。
picture of David bringing a poetic voice to what you had done in his life, and then that。
challenge to proclaim and invite, to live a life and not just say some words.。
Father, I'm just so grateful.。
I'm so grateful that your scriptures constantly challenge us in this area of worship, for。
us to be challenged to move out of the beauty of a room like this, to receive what it is。
that you have for us in a place like this, but then to take it out and put it into action,。
to begin to put flesh and bones around ideas and thoughts.。
So Lord, I pray that if what has been shared this morning is helpful, I pray that you would。
now speak to each person here about the song that is in their mouths.。
Lord, it will be different perhaps for each one of us, but you have placed a song in their。
mouths.。
You've put it there, Lord, and the gospel has had a unique impact to each person in。
this room's life.。
And Lord, you put it in their mouths not just so that they would experience a new life,。
but so that they would be able to be proclaimers and inviters to the kingdom of God.。
And Lord, yes, we've seen terrible ways that the church has done that in the past, ways。
that have actually hurt rather than invited and released.。
Lord, I pray that Father, we wouldn't be held back just because of that, but that Lord,。
you would show us new and creative and honest and beautiful ways to share the gospel today.。
And Lord, throughout this year as we talk more about that and we do some trainings around。
how we might do that, and Lord, as you move us as a church into this deeper and deeper,。
it starts here with this desire for people to see the new song in us, not just hear about。
it.。
So I want to pray for each person here, Lord, that you would show them ways to practically。
put that song into action in their lives this year.。
Lord, we want people to see the new song.。
Maybe just open your hands and I just want to invite the Holy Spirit just to...。
For some of you, you're so excited about evangelism and it's bubbling up inside of you and you。
can't wait to get going.。
Lord, I want to pray for more, Lord Jesus, fan into flame the passion that is in this。
room for those that long to serve and to share and to show the world the love of Christ.。
Lord, for those of us in this room where we're excited but we don't know what the next step。
is, Lord, I want to pray that you would speak to them about the next step.。
You would show them practically how they can put this into action.。
Lord, for those of us in this room where we're sort of like, "I hate this thing.。
I don't like the idea of sharing my life or my faith.。
I'd rather be a private person.。
I'd rather be...。
You know, that's for others to do."。
Lord, I want to pray that you would just honor them and where they're at, but I would pray。
that also, Lord, you would show the beautifully unique personal ways they can do it in ways。
that are comfortable for them.。
And I want to just say this over you.。
You do not have to try to be like someone else.。
Remember, somebody else's song is not the new song you're supposed to sing.。
So for some of you in this room where this is not a natural thing for you and it's difficult,。
Jesus understands that.。
And I believe he will give you your personal ways to do it in ways that are right for you.。
So Lord, for those that are passionate and for those of us that are wrestling, Lord,。
would you come?。
May your glory be seen for the 92% that do not know you.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
Amen.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
