Have a seat, have a seat.。
It's so good that you're here.。
My name's Andrew, I'm one of the pastors.。
If you're joining us online for the first time,。
or if you're in this room in the overflow,。
joining us for the first time, we're so glad you're with us.。
We're in a series called Public Faith,。
and we're really unpacking through scripture。
what we've just been praying about.。
This wonderful opportunity we have in the world right now。
to see the gospel of Jesus take root。
and take hold like never before.。
And there's this really profound moment。
where the apostle Paul writes into the church in Rome.。
And in the very first chapter of his letter。
to the church in Rome, Paul writes a very short little verse。
but it's a verse that really unpacks,。
I think, his manifesto for public faith,。
his manifesto for why we should live our faith publicly.。
And in so doing, he's, with this one little verse,。
trying to instill confidence and boldness。
and courage in the church in Rome.。
Now, the church in Rome, as far as we were aware,。
at the time of Paul's writing to it, was relatively small.。
In fact, from what we can tell,。
it was largely gathering in three small houses.。
It was three small house churches in the city of Rome.。
I wonder if you could imagine for a moment。
what it would have been like to be a Christian,。
to bear witness to the gospel of Jesus。
in the very epicenter of Greco-Roman empire and power.。
The whole of Rome was designed。
to speak forth a proclamation about power.。
The phrase, "All roads lead to Rome,"。
was actually literally true.。
And everything funneled in the city, the architecture,。
the structure of the city in those days,。
all of it, the social structures and the social norms,。
all of it was designed to bring you。
to the very center of that power, which was Caesar himself.。
And from Caesar, all of that power and that authority。
and the dominion of the empire went from Caesar。
back out to the rest of the Greco-Roman empire.。
So imagine what it would be like for you。
to be somebody who was right there。
in the epicenter of that power,。
believing in a different kind of power.。
Imagine how it must have felt to be embedded。
as a little piece of yeast。
in this massive amount of dough around you.。
And you would be forgiven for thinking。
that those people in those house churches,。
probably many of them new believers in Jesus,。
were pretty happy when they were in the safety。
and the security of those house church gatherings。
to profess their relationship with Jesus.。
But you could understand that as soon as they stepped out。
of there, their desire to wanna keep pretty personal。
and pretty private about that faith.。
And Paul, being the bold pastor that he is,。
writes to the church in Rome, a church he had never visited,。
but he writes to the church in Rome。
and he says something to them that will shake that church。
like never before.。
In fact, this thing that he says,。
and then he then unpacks it。
throughout the rest of the letter,。
this thing that he said, they didn't know it at the time,。
but it would become the catalyst to the greatest move。
of the Spirit of God in the church of Rome。
that it had ever experienced in its history。
up until that point.。
One little phrase.。
You wanna know what it is?。
Let me read it to you.。
This is Romans chapter one, verse 16.。
Paul says, "I am not ashamed of the gospel。
"because it is the power of God for the salvation。
"of everyone who believes,。
"first for the Jew, then for the Gentile."。
Paul writes into a church meeting behind closed doors。
and he says, "You have to understand。
"that we are not to be ashamed of the gospel。
"because it is the power of God。
"for the salvation of everyone who believes."。
If you were to read this passage in the Greek,。
it's neatly written in two sections,。
the first half and the second half.。
I wanna deal with both of those briefly.。
The first half, he says this,。
"I am not ashamed of the gospel,"。
or if you read it in the Greek, it reads more like this,。
"I am not shamed by the gospel."。
Paul is doing something very counter-cultural。
in this moment.。
He takes a word, this word ashamed.。
In the Greek, it was a word that was very central。
to the whole of the Greek and Roman culture and society.。
In fact, it was a word that was used very often in society.。
You have to understand that Greek and Roman society。
was built upon an honor-shame culture.。
And an honor-shame culture was one。
where people lived their lives very publicly。
and how they were seen publicly, their reputation,。
the way that others around them viewed them。
was very important.。
It was paramount to your success in that city。
to have a good reputation or a good public persona.。
And you did that through this process of honor and shame.。
Honor, quite literally,。
was the value of your worth in society.。
And you gained honor by what you did。
and how you conducted yourself,。
or perhaps the wealth that you had。
or the lineage that you were born into.。
So honor helped you to rise in status in society.。
Conversely, shame was the loss of honor.。
So honor could be gained, but it could also be lost.。
And when you are shamed,。
it's because you had some honor before,。
but that honor is now gone.。
And when somebody was shamed in Greek or Roman society,。
it was almost always public humiliation,。
some public rejection.。
And you could get shamed for a lot of different things,。
maybe aligning yourself to somebody。
who is of a low class in society,。
maybe professing to have a belief system。
or a thought that was different from the societal norms.。
If you could make yourself more like the society around you,。
you would rise in honor.。
But as soon as you began to act, think,。
or be different to the society around you,。
then shame would come upon you.。
Now here's the powerful thing.。
The symbol of the greatest shame in Greek or Roman society。
was the crucifixion.。
The crucifixion was the highest punishment。
for the lowest level of status.。
And if anybody in your family had ever been crucified,。
the loss of face and the shame upon you as a family。
would last for generations.。
So crucifixion and the impact of that for shame。
and the loss of face was central to the understanding。
of this Greek or Roman honor and shame culture.。
So could you imagine what it would be like to say,。
I follow someone who was crucified?。
What you're essentially saying is,。
I am following someone who has been deeply shamed。
and rejected, which means by association,。
I am also shamed.。
And so you could forgive those people in the church of Rome。
going, hey, I'm happy to confess Jesus as my Lord。
and Savior in the nice comfort of our home church.。
But as soon as I'm back outside there。
in Greek or Roman society,。
I don't want the shame of that relationship。
to still be on me.。
I don't want to be shamed by the gospel.。
Are you with me?。
No one is with me.。
Are you with me?。
Paul writes into that and he says,。
here's the thing you need to know right up front.。
I've got a long letter and I'm gonna unpack this。
in a lot of detail, but here's the summary of it.。
I am not ashamed of the gospel.。
In other words, I am not shamed by the gospel,。
which is incredibly powerful。
because what he's trying to do。
is not just subvert a Greek or Roman system,。
but he's actually trying to show the church。
why they should be bold and courageous。
because what they profess is actually the thing。
that that system desperately needs.。
Now, to understand that,。
you have to see the second side of the verse.。
In the Greek, it says something along the lines。
of like this, because, so I'm not ashamed of the gospel。
because it is the power of God for everyone in salvation。
for everyone who believes.。
Paul, once again, does something controversial.。
In the first half, he chooses his Greek word, ashamed,。
which connected to the culture.。
He does the same sort of thing in the second half.。
He takes this word power,。
which was central to the Roman church。
and the reality of that Roman culture.。
And he says, you wanna know what true power is?。
It is not what you have been told.。
It is not what everything in the city is trying。
and is designed to try to proclaim.。
He's saying, here's what the true power is.。
The gospel is true power.。
And the reason why is because it turns。
this whole honor shame system on its head.。
See, Paul, he understood this was the gospel.。
If he was standing right here,。
he would tell you this is the gospel,。
that God had such a heart for the broken world around him,。
that he didn't consider being acquainted with that power。
and that authority on high, something to be grasped,。
but he humbled himself and he came here in this incarnation.。
And through a place of humility and love,。
he allowed himself to be crucified.。
He allowed himself to experience。
the worst public social shame that you could experience.。
And the reason why he allowed himself to be shamed so much。
was that because three days later,。
God raised him from death to life.。
And in raising him back into life,。
God makes a statement over the world。
that there is no amount of shame anymore。
that can ever hold you back from the love of God.。
So he's saying, and this is really theologically。
quite beautiful how he's taking Greek and Roman culture。
and he's actually flipping it 'cause he's saying。
the thing that you think is the place of greatest shame。
is actually the very thing that gives the greatest freedom.。
In other words, true power is not being released。
from shame and dishonor socially,。
it's being released from shame and dishonor eternally.。
That's what happens on the cross.。
That's what Jesus does.。
He stands in the gap and takes all of the shame of sin。
on his shoulders, the dishonor of every sin ever committed,。
he takes it upon himself and in raising to new life,。
forgives that sin, is the one sacrifice that pays the price。
so that no one else has to suffer anymore。
under any shame, any dishonor,。
that even in the worst of our sin,。
we have a God who still loves.。
We have a God who has set us free。
and we have a God who's created a pathway。
by which we can go from our shame to eternal glory in him.。
So I am not ashamed of the gospel, Paul said,。
because it is the very power to set you free。
from the shame society is placing on you.。
It's pretty cool because this enables the church in Rome。
to begin to think about everything differently。
and begin to go, everybody around us is suffering。
with this system of honor and shame, honor and shame.。
Everybody's so consumed by how they think of themselves。
and how they think of others and they're stressed out,。
they're anxious, there's all this stuff going on。
and we have the very message that sets them free from that.。
But when we are ashamed of the gospel,。
we keep the very message that can set them free。
simply to ourselves.。
If I was to summarize these two sides。
of this really profound verse,。
I would summarize it like this.。
By emphasizing the gospel's divine power,。
Paul is countering the perceived shame。
of a crucified Messiah and boldly challenging。
the honor-shame system of his day,。
prioritizing, notice this, divine approval。
over cultural acceptance, that is public faith.。
Where we're gonna prioritize divine approval。
over cultural acceptance.。
It should be not lost on us that here in Hong Kong,。
we're still living in an honor-shame society, are we not?。
I mean, the idea of the loss of face。
is so embedded into our culture here in Hong Kong。
and perhaps you've experienced what it's like to lose face。
or perhaps someone in your family has experienced that。
and you know what that social pull can be like,。
you know the brokenness of a honor-shame culture and society.。
So perhaps now more than ever,。
this phrase that Paul writes to the church in Rome。
that was important for them 2000 years ago。
is even more important for the church of Hong Kong today。
and perhaps it should be preached in every pulpit。
of every church in this city.。
We are not ashamed of the gospel,。
for it is the power of God for salvation。
for all who believe.。
The challenge we have though,。
is that even in the desire to want to proclaim that,。
we recognize the fear inside of us.。
We recognize the persecution,。
we recognize the weight and the heaviness of a society。
that can be so often against the very message that we hold.。
We worry about the loss of face,。
we worry about the social impact,。
we worry about our jobs.。
And all of those things have weight。
and all those things need to be held in balance with this。
but ultimately Paul writes to a church and says,。
"Do not think that you are shamed by this gospel,。
"in fact, remember that it is the very gospel。
"that frees you from that shame."。
And what a message of great hope that can be。
for here in Hong Kong today。
but we have to realize that that hope。
is not a default reality.。
What I mean by that is that,。
that message has to go out.。
If all of it ever is,。
is kept within the hearts and the lives。
of fiery Christians on a Sunday。
who raised their hands and sing loudly。
but never actually works out into their public sphere。
of their influence in the world,。
then the very gift that God has given us。
to bring the hope to those that need it the most。
never gets heard, we need to preach it.。
Paul actually just a few chapters later in chapter 10,。
he says that exact thing.。
Let me read this to you in chapter 10,。
starting in verse 14.。
He said, "How then can they call on the one。
"that they have not believed in?。
"And how can they believe in the one。
"whom they have not heard?。
"And how can they hear without someone preaching to them?"。
And so Paul says, look,。
it's not just gonna be a default reality。
that people realize, oh, there's a God out there。
who has forgiven me of my shame and my brokenness。
and my sin and I can have relations with him and new life.。
No, this needs to be communicated.。
It needs to be lived.。
It needs to be preached.。
It's one thing to believe。
that you are not ashamed of the gospel。
or to even believe that it is the power of God。
to bring salvation to the world,。
but it's a whole other thing to actually then preach it,。
to actually then live it,。
to actually then want to proclaim it,。
want to reveal it in whatever creative, bold,。
beautiful ways that your life might be created to do that.。
That's a whole another thing.。
I'm challenged to say it this way.。
We are the greatest of hypocrites.。
If here's what, we're the greatest hypocrites in the world。
if on the one hand, we have this idea。
that we are not ashamed of the gospel,。
but on the other hand, we still keep it private.。
That's hypocritical.。
We should be ashamed by that.。
I mean, we shouldn't say,。
"Hey, I'm not ashamed of the gospel,"。
and then like never tell anyone about it.。
Those two things don't work together.。
And so Paul is saying,。
"Look, the first thing you have to understand,。
we are not ashamed by this gospel,。
for it is the power of God for salvation。
for all who believe.。
The very thing that was the instrument of shame。
has become the very thing that's broken shame."。
That's good news.。
That's very, very good news.。
And that's good news for Hong Kong at a time。
when I think Hong Kong needs some good news.。
I want you to have a look at this table behind me.。
This is the number of Christians in Hong Kong。
over the last decade.。
So 2015 through to 2025.。
Now, there's some encouragement in this graph。
as you can probably see.。
Back 10 years ago,。
we had about a million Christians in Hong Kong,。
Protestant and Catholic,。
which was about 13.9% of the population at that time.。
Today in 2025,。
we have roughly about 1.4 million Protestants and Catholics。
in Hong Kong,。
which comes to about 19% of the population today.。
So actually in the last decade,。
Christianity in our city has grown by 40%.。
That's pretty good news.。
I don't think that's great news,。
but that's pretty good news, right?。
Like 40% is decent.。
We're heading in the right direction.。
You'll notice that the population of Hong Kong。
Christian is going。
and the population of Hong Kong is going down.。
We're going up, they're going down.。
I don't know what's going on there.。
One day we'll meet, you know, in the middle.。
But there's some good news in that graph.。
But here's the statistic of that graph。
that moves me the most.。
There's still 80% of the people of our city。
that don't know Jesus.。
80% when the church has been in Hong Kong for 100 years.。
When the church has been in our city for 100 years。
and there's still 80% of the people in the city。
that don't profess Jesus as their Lord and Savior,。
we have to be honest with ourselves。
and say, are we actually ashamed of the gospel?。
Six years ago, God lit a fire under us here at the Vine。
when it comes to this idea of sharing the gospel。
or living or being the gospel more in our city.。
He challenged us in how we view what it is to do church,。
to be church, to have church.。
And he challenged us that we need to start。
thinking of church differently from one building。
in one static location to church being the people of God。
who spread out in their spheres of influence。
around their city a little bit like a river。
that flows through the city.。
So you've probably heard us talk about the river model。
over the last six years.。
This beautiful idea that we can take the gospel。
into all of our spheres of influence,。
like that river watering every part of our city。
for the glory of God.。
It's a beautiful, bold, courageous vision。
that can only happen if God stirs something within us。
and in our hearts.。
Because of this vision six years ago,。
we began to think and pray as a leadership。
around church planting.。
'Cause when God says, hey, this is how I want you to be,。
a river flowing in the city, we began to think,。
well, we need to be flowing in the city.。
And that means in our workplaces。
and it means that the people,。
but it also means that we need to express。
ourselves across the city in different ways.。
And you'll know three years ago,。
we started our first church plant.。
We planted in Yulong and Tim and Ivan as leaders there,。
and the other staff there have done a tremendous job。
over the last three years.。
There's probably around about 300 people。
that meet regularly on a Sunday in Yulong.。
We have service in Cantonese and in English.。
And a lot of those 300 people are new believers.。
People have come to Christ。
because we planted something there.。
We've reached out with the gospel.。
We've believed that we're not gonna be ashamed of it。
and that we're gonna bring an expression of it。
to a cultural group of people that need it most.。
Well, today, I'm really excited。
that we're making another big announcement.。
This is gonna be a Sunday where you're gonna look back。
in a few years' time and go, I was there that day.。
And to help make that big announcement,。
I'm really excited to invite to the stage。
two people that have been very central。
to the life and growth and development of the Vine。
over the last 18 years.。
They've held staff roles here.。
They've been volunteers within our ministry.。
But they have a heart.。
I think they're like the pools of the pool to Rome.。
They are like them.。
They're like pool to Hong Kong in this time.。
I know for 100% certainty。
that they are not ashamed of the gospel.。
So to help us make this announcement,。
can you put your hands together。
as we invite Sydney and Vivian Yip?。
(audience applauding)。
(audience applauding)。
- Good morning, Church.。
- Well, thank you, Andrew.。
Well, we are going to share some of our stories。
and hope that they find resonance in you。
before we do the announcement part of it.。
My name is Sydney and this is Vivian.。
We just celebrated our 34th wedding anniversary.。
(audience applauding)。
We've been in the Vine community for the past 18 years.。
I've the privilege to serve in the eldership for nine years,。
including five years as chairman of the board.。
But I'd like to rewind it to 50 years ago,。
okay, when I entered into my secondary school.。
And the name of the secondary school is Yinghua College,。
which literally means Anglo-Chinese school,。
Yinghua, Siyun.。
Now, on that very first day, when I started,。
I literally cried my eyes out。
because that was my third choice of school.。
But God had a greater plan.。
I only subsequently knew that Yinghua。
was first founded in 1818,。
more than 200 years ago,。
by the London Missionary Society.。
Their vision was to educate Chinese students,。
teaching literacy, morals, and Christian values.。
But most of all, they would want them to become agents。
to bring the gospel to China.。
Now, that seed of vision continued for over 200 years.。
And I'm always amazed how more than half of my classmates。
come to faith during our school years,。
many of whom became pastors, elders,。
leaders in Christian NGOs,。
or serving in their own right in unique manners.。
I am also one of the first.。
Though somehow along the way,。
I backslid in my faith commitments,。
I went on to pursue some of my own dreams。
and drifted away from faith for more than 15 years.。
But God is gracious.。
As if in Genesis, Joseph say,。
"Well, you intended to,。
"well, I intended to pursue my own dreams,。
"but God intended it for good,。
"to accomplish what is now being done,。
"the saving of many lives."。
So it was actually some time down the road。
when we moved over to Singapore。
that my passion to serve Him reignited.。
So on one of the weekends,。
while I was working as a medical profession in Singapore,。
one of my patients left into a sudden coma.。
So his wife was devastated.。
I want to bring some comfort to her,。
but she was a Mandarin speaker.。
So I called up my church pastors,。
as usual, as many of you would have done.。
But on a Sunday or Saturday, I can't remember exactly,。
no one was really available.。
So I was tasked by the leader that,。
"Well, why not go and reach out,。
"share comfort and good news with her?"。
So the backdrop is we really came。
from an English-speaking congregation,。
but I record, well, that some time ago,。
that was in the '70s,。
we were taught Mandarin in Yinghua College.。
So I pick up some of those。
and shared a word of encouragement.。
Now, the important matter was,。
well, I realized that God could be using me。
to reach out to Chinese-speaking people.。
Now, as we shared earlier on,。
we actually returned to Hong Kong。
and joined Divine for the past two decades.。
Actually, through the years,。
we saw God's hands working in this church,。
building something really beautiful,。
especially in the reaching out to Chinese speakers.。
Looking back, I can see the seed planted in me。
50 years ago is continuing to grow,。
and I want to be faithful to God and His calling.。
>> For me, my journey began in Singapore。
more than 25 years ago.。
My family moved there when I was in mid-30s,。
and hardly knew anyone there.。
One day at the pool,。
while our kids were in the swimming class,。
another mom began chatting with me,。
and we quickly connected.。
Through her friendship and outreach,。
I was welcomed into her home church,。
and that eventually became my community.。
I was not treated as a foreigner or an outsider.。
I was accepted and loved,。
and there, I accepted Christ as my own savior.。
Our marriage grew stronger,。
and our family become closer.。
We opened our home for small groups,。
and we were tremendously blessed,。
and then we let small group,。
including family group with children ministry.。
That is our family group that in Singapore years ago.。
Yeah, and that, yeah,。
our lives were indeed transformed.。
I also got involved in the inner healing。
and deliverance ministry,。
as well as the pastoral care ministry.。
Over these 10 years,。
we witnessed our home church has planted。
at least two more churches.。
When my family moved back from Singapore,。
I finished my theological studies in Hong Kong,。
but even before I knew exactly。
what God wanted me to do and serve,。
God was really and already leading me.。
He led us to the vine,。
and I joined the pastoral staff team in 2014.。
Over the years, I am honored being part。
of this wonderful senior leadership team,。
and I am passionate to lead the Chinese ministry,。
both the Cantonese and the Mandarin communities,。
and more recently, leading the restoration ministry.。
But I would like to flash back in 2014。
at the English and Cantonese Alva Retreat。
in the West Ark of Ma Wan.。
God gave me a vision during worship.。
I saw dazzling lights spread across the land,。
shining outward in all directions.。
I did not fully understand them,。
but my heart sensed it was the call。
to reach further the Chinese community.。
What we began as a home group of 20。
has grown into a vibrant Chinese ministry,。
and you will see here is a picture。
of our Cantonese community back in 2018.。
And now today, my heart still believes God is saying,。
"There is more to come,"。
and I want to avail myself to love the people。
that God put into our lives.。
- So what is this more?。
Divine has embraced the Reformation for six, seven years,。
and I pray that this will continue to inspire us。
to see that we can be part of something even bigger,。
which is still unfolding.。
Today, we are excited to announce that Vivian and I,。
together with the leadership of Divine,。
are sensing a call for us to move out。
and plant a fresh kind of missional outreach fine church。
in the North Metropolis area of Hong Kong.。
Now, the call of this new River Initiative is distinct.。
It would be sharing the love of Christ。
with Chinese speakers, Mandarin and Cantonese included,。
in a way that encourage real spiritual growth。
and builds loving, Christ-centered communities。
without walls.。
Our mission is to create a network。
of these caring communities。
woven throughout the North Metropolis of Hong Kong.。
And we hope and we dream。
that there will be planting church, planting churches.。
So they aren't just churches in buildings,。
they are churches in homes, workplaces, and neighborhoods,。
everywhere people gather and live their daily lives.。
And here's the real beauty.。
As we plant new churches and communities,。
they will in turn plant more.。
And this multiplication will help us establish。
a sustainable, vibrant gospel presence across the region.。
It's not just about maintaining what's here.。
It's about growing and spreading out。
so that we may reach more lives for Jesus.。
Even in John 15, it is read this way.。
"Every branch that does bear fruit, he prunes.。
"He prunes so that it may be even more fruitful."。
And we yearn to be even more fruitful.。
But then why focus on the North Metropolis?。
So for obvious reasons,。
it is one of the Hong Kong's fastest growing areas.。
North Metropolis actually include area。
beyond Shaanxi, Fanning, Yunnan, but also Tianshui,。
and all the new zones in between,。
including Kuchong, Shantin.。
And over the next decade,。
more than one million new residents will move in,。
bringing the total population over there to 2.5 million.。
Many will be new families, professionals,。
people from Hong Kong who are relocated。
from the original residence,。
and also new residents from mainland China.。
Now while some local churches in Hong Kong。
are beginning to venture into this new area,。
the overall landscape is that the people。
are still underserved by churches.。
Some places are instead blank slates.。
And what an opportunity for the gospel。
to take root and flourish.。
- Yes, what excites me most are the people,。
new neighbors, new families,。
and who do not yet know Jesus.。
Yeah, but Jesus loves them regardless,。
no less than how He loves us.。
God is inviting us to go to them,。
to be His hands and feet in this new area,。
Northern Metropolis.。
Malachi 4, 5, and 6,。
"See, I will send the prophet Elijah to you。
"before that great and dreadful day of the Lord comes.。
"He will turn the hearts of the parents to their children,。
"and the hearts of the children to their parents."。
At Divine Restoration,。
we have heard many powerful testimonies。
from participants in their courses.。
Not only did they experience their personal heart healing,。
but also the restoration of broken relationships.。
Reconciliation is still happening in homes。
between spouses, between parents and the children.。
God is truly at work turning hearts back to Him,。
and also to one another.。
Let's see, Mark 4, 35.。
"Let us go over to the other side.。
"Despite the initial success and all reasons to stay,。
"Jesus called His disciples to venture into new territories。
"and potentially hostile ministry grounds.。
"Likewise, our calling is to cross over,。
"go further and step into this new uncharted,。
"because many lives are waiting to encounter Jesus,。
"His presence, His love, His hope."。
- Do we dare to believe that God is indeed leading divine。
into this uncharted area?。
As part of the kingdom's advisement。
in His grand plan for Hong Kong,。
we felt led by the spirit to narrow our focus。
to reaching out to local Cantonese speakers。
as well as Mandarin speakers who have settled。
or are settling to integrate with the broader community。
here in Hong Kong.。
We want to be part of the new and developing community。
that will grow and mature in years to come.。
Still, we want to start now,。
operating from possibly Shaanxi as a base。
for outreach efforts, discipleship,。
and small group developments.。
In fact, while the real estate sentiment。
was really at rock bottom last year,。
our family made a small, bold move。
to move from the island side to the new territories.。
I used to walk, no, I used to take three minutes lift,。
okay, from the hospital quarters to the hospital,。
which is right opposite, to attend to my patients.。
These days, I drove 50 to 60 minutes to commute to work.。
But now we have the benefit of reaching North Metropolis。
in 20 minutes and the border in 25 minutes.。
While we are convinced that God will honor our commitments。
to avail ourselves, we want to develop small groups。
as the basis for many interlinking building blocks。
for fellow believers who may be dispersed。
over a wide stretch of land throughout North Metropolis.。
And yet, we decide to be united with the vine。
as we share the pulpit messages from the vine。
as anchors for our Sunday gatherings.。
We may be starting small, but we plant the seeds,。
we water the plants, and may God grow and transform lives.。
We pray that we'll continue to see lives being renewed。
and transformed through this church plant.。
>> Earlier, I shared my faith journey began。
in an English-speaking community.。
My theological training was entirely English-based.。
I had no connections with the local churches in Hong Kong。
and little understanding of the religious sentiments。
in China.。
I didn't even have the Christian vocabulary。
or prayer language in Cantonese and Mandarin.。
So, when God gave me that vision more than 10 years ago。
to reach out to the local Chinese community,。
I felt completely unqualified.。
I felt like Jeremiah in chapter one saying,。
"I do not know how to speak.。
"How possibly could I serve the Chinese?"。
I saw all my inadequacies, my lack of fluency,。
my unfamiliarity of the local Christian culture,。
my limited experience, the list goes on.。
My heart was overwhelmed.。
But looking back now, I realize those places of weakness。
were where God was inviting me to surrender,。
to surrender, to surrender.。
What I saw as a limitation, God embraced as an invitation.。
An invitation for His presence to reach us and to lead,。
His strength to see us through。
and to make known His love for the Chinese.。
Not by my ability, but by His calling and grace.。
And now, as we step into this next uncharted season。
as a church, we feel that same call again。
to enter a new frontier with boldness, courage,。
and humility to reach out to the Chinese。
in a new context, in a new era.。
Not from a place of confidence,。
but from vulnerability, authenticity, and love.。
Do we have all the answers?。
No.。
But we are going, not because the path is clear,。
but because the Spirit is leading.。
>> We dare to believe when we do God's work。
in God's way and in God's timing,。
we always see God's fruits.。
So how should this congregation respond?。
Number one, well, don't belittle yourself。
as an English speaker.。
Prayerfully discern that God could be igniting。
a passion for you to reach out。
to the Chinese speakers in the land.。
And then you think of your time, your talents,。
and your treasures that God has entrusted to you,。
which you may contribute to this vision.。
The operating model of this New River Initiative。
is that lots of the ministry will be led。
by volunteers and lay leaders.。
And I'm privileged to be one of these paid,。
no, not paid, lay leaders.。
[laughing]。
Well, we want to take the time to grow the community。
in relationship to in discipleship。
and in readiness to reach out.。
While we discern and identify the appropriate venue。
for gathering, both in the interim as well as the midterm,。
when more of Northern Metropolis facilities。
and venues may become available.。
>> Yeah, so what next?。
Next Sunday, after three services,。
please join us in the info booth outside the auditorium.。
We would love to connect with you, answer your questions,。
and perhaps might help you to find out a little bit more,。
explore a little bit more of the church plant.。
And then on another Sunday, November 2nd,。
we will host a launch gathering。
in the first floor mini hall at 4.15.。
We will share more about our hearts, the vision,。
the mission, the practical next steps,。
and how we can forward together.。
So after the launch gathering,。
we will begin this biweekly gatherings.。
Yeah, though we have not known the gathering place,。
but we will come and pray together。
to build deeper community and prepare what's next.。
>> Well, we've been wrestling on this matter。
for the past two years,。
and we come back again and again to the honest question,。
whether we are fast enough.。
What do you mean by fast?。
To be faithful in our calling to serve God,。
to be available, to be present with His people,。
even though when it's not convenient.。
Anyway, you know that Northern Metropolis is very far away.。
And my own challenge is, am I really available?。
Are we submissive to the guidance of the Holy Spirit。
while we don't have the grand plan or the book prints?。
And are we ourselves leading transformed life。
in our inner being,。
as well as be transformative in our world living?。
Now, if that resonates with you,。
we would love to have you join me with us。
on this fast track.。
God is already moving in the Northern Metropolis.。
Could He be inviting you to join Him?。
Perhaps He's calling you to be part of the team,。
a future financial supporter,。
or even someone who can offer a venue。
for ministry gatherings.。
>> Amen.。
>> Or maybe He's placed other resources。
for you to contribute.。
You may be living in Shaanxi.。
In whatever ways, God may be leading you.。
We're excited to look forward to seeing。
how God brings together His people。
to serve Him together as a team.。
>> Yes.。
Yes, as we, yeah, as today's sermon,。
as Andrew preached,。
that we, as a church,。
are not ashamed of the gospel.。
During the worship, we have the song saying that。
we, as a church, decided to follow Jesus.。
What happened?。
No turning back, but forward.。
Be mindful.。
No turning back.。
So, we pray that.。
This, by the Spirit, moving in our hearts,。
that we will respond to His calling in obedience.。
All right, and we would like to take a moment。
to thank all our friends,。
families, and also our mentors in other places。
who are watching online.。
Yeah, so, thank you so much。
because you have been walking with us。
and support us with so much love in our journey.。
Thank you.。
>> Well, let's step into this dream together。
for the glory of God。
and for the blessing of the Chinese-speaking people。
in our city. >> In our city.。
[audience applauding]。
>> Thank you.。
>> So excited.。
>> Yes.。
>> I'm kind of emotional, like you are.。
I know you two are sweating.。
I was sweating too.。
I'm just kidding.。
This is something that not just Sidney and Vivian are doing.。
Obviously, they're gonna be looking for people here。
to be a part of this journey with them,。
but actually, this church plant。
is something the Vine is doing.。
It's something we're doing as the community of God.。
We're planting another church in our city, amen?。
It's incredibly exciting,。
and so we wanna just come around these guys。
and just stand with them and pray for them.。
There's gonna be many things in the months ahead。
that will keep you updated on the progress of all of this。
and ways that you can be involved,。
but today, it's about just praying,。
releasing you guys into this vision,。
and us as a church saying we're doing this together.。
So can I invite you all to stand with me?。
And we're gonna stretch out our hands,。
and we're just gonna pray.。
I'm gonna invite pastors and elders and others。
that are available here to come as well。
and just lay hands on these guys.。
Let's stretch out our hands.。
Father, we just stand before you。
as a church community grateful,。
grateful that in our own little way,。
we're declaring we're not ashamed of the gospel in Hong Kong.。
And we thank you that there's that 80% of harvest field。
just right out there.。
And we thank you for this discerned call。
that we as an eldership and leadership have had。
to the northern metropolis part of our city.。
And we thank you that you've birthed that vision。
inside of Sydney and Vivian.。
And Lord, we get to stand now as a church community。
just in prayer, in support, and in hope。
that these guys would with their team。
and those that come alongside of them in this season。
see an incredible fruit.。
Lord, we wanna pray into the kingdom,。
hundreds of people would.。
We wanna pray that they would plant churches。
that plant churches.。
We wanna pray that you would place an anointing upon them。
where their focus is not on their seating capacity,。
but their sending capacity.。
We wanna pray, Lord, that the power of God,。
this divine power to see salvation come。
would be at the forefront of everything that they do.。
Lord, we wanna pray that we would see the needle moved。
in our city, many, many people coming to Christ Jesus.。
And Lord, we pray for this northern metropolis church plant.。
Lord, we have so many questions that are yet to be answered.。
But Lord, I thank you for the faithfulness of these two。
to say that even without the answers,。
this is an uncharted season that the vine is in,。
and we're willing to be uncharted adventurers。
on uncharted waters, going with the wind of the Spirit,。
even though not all the answers are there.。
Lord, I pray that that would inspire every person。
in this room as they think about their own life。
and their own situations.。
And Lord, we just thank you that your hand is upon this。
in a beautiful way.。
And we pray all this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says, can we give these guys a round of applause?。
(congregation applauding)。
And I wanna just finish, we're just gonna respond。
in worship in a sec, but I wanna just finish。
by challenging and praying for you.。
This is a plant that we're doing as a whole church,。
but today's message about not being ashamed of the gospel,。
this fervency, this urgency for living a public faith。
in your sphere of influence is for you.。
It's not just for Vivian and Sidney,。
it's not just for the leadership of the church,。
it's for every single one of us.。
And maybe there's an area in your life,。
whether that's your family, your workplace,。
maybe a situation where you're planted a sphere of influence。
that you have where what you're hearing today。
resonates also with you.。
Or perhaps you feel the challenge。
that Paul brought the church in Rome,。
a church where you could understand。
that they would want to hide.。
And Paul's saying, no, no, we can't hide。
'cause we've got the very hope in us。
that breaks the shame that the culture has placed。
around us.。
And I wanna pray for you that you would have a boldness。
and a courage in the gospel of Jesus Christ。
like never before.。
And I wanna pray that you would look at your family。
and your workplace and your sphere of influence,。
not with, oh man, I just don't think anyone's gonna come。
to Jesus, but with what an opportunity I have。
to just do the small thing I can to share the hope of Christ。
even if it's just with one person。
and believe that God can do what I cannot do.。
You're not responsible for saving anyone,。
that's Jesus' role, but you have been called to preach.。
Let me pray for you.。
Father, I thank you that Lord in this joy of the gospel。
that is inside of us, you would open our mouths。
to preach boldly and courageously like never before.。
You would open up our hands to work for the gospel。
like never before, our feet to be the beautiful good news。
that takes the gospel to places where it currently。
is not being heard.。
I pray that our lifestyle would reveal the values。
in the heart of you.。
And I pray that we would do this in that boldness。
and courage, not because we have all the answers。
like Vivian and Sidney said, but simply because we are cool.。
We thank you for this in Jesus' name.。
Everyone says, amen.。
