Amen.。
Okay, so if you've been here in the last couple of weeks,。
you know we just wrapped up our sermon series on healing。
and we're starting a brand new sermon series。
and I'm gonna introduce the speaker of today。
and he will come and tell us about that.。
Let's put our hands together and welcome Pastor Tim.。
(audience applauding)。
Who else is gonna start a new sermon series, right?。
Why don't we stretch out our hands and pray for him?。
Father, we just pray for your anointing。
and your presence on Tim today.。
This word, this actually, this whole sermon series。
that you have put on his heart,。
you have something you wanna share with us。
through him today.。
And so God, I pray you will anoint not just him,。
but also our ears, you will anoint our hearts。
to receive this message that you wanna bring to this church。
so that we could be your people,。
ready to do your work in this area.。
In Jesus' name we pray.。
- Amen. - Amen.。
Thank you Chapman.。
I don't know if you have ever found yourself。
in a place where you are lost,。
where you are just lost.。
Now I know I have.。
When I was a young adult,。
I had just graduated from university, I started working.。
And during that time, my company,。
they moved me to a location where I didn't know anyone.。
And so without community, without that support,。
I started making choices that were just not good.。
I didn't have the right priorities in my life。
and I just started drifting.。
And I wasn't being the person that I wanted to be,。
not in the very least.。
I knew I wasn't who I wanted to be.。
I don't know, have you ever felt that way?。
You're like, I'm not who I wanna be.。
I know God has something better for me.。
And I knew that.。
And so that was the circumstance there.。
So what do you do as a Christian。
when you find yourself in a place。
where you are losing your way?。
How do you find your way back。
into the life that God intends for you?。
How do you get back on track?。
Now perhaps some of you are feeling this way right now,。
that you have been in one way or another losing your way.。
Maybe you just have been losing that passion for Jesus.。
Like you used to be excited to come and to worship。
and spend time in Jesus' presence,。
but now suddenly that's not the same anymore.。
Maybe you've gotten off track wandering。
because you have other priorities.。
Jesus somehow moved away from the center of your life。
and suddenly there's other things。
that are absorbing your time, your heart,。
your thinking, your imagination.。
And you weren't even aware that it was happening。
and suddenly you find yourself in this place。
where your faith is really not playing a role。
or much of a role in your life anymore.。
Now I have good news for you.。
I think we all at one point or another。
can relate to this experience。
and we go through these different seasons,。
but today we're gonna start a sermon series,。
11 weeks through the book of Galatians.。
And in that, we're gonna see how God invites us。
to get back on track and align ourselves with Jesus again.。
And so that's this process that we're gonna go through.。
Now I wanna introduce to you the book of Galatians,。
give you a little bit background information。
and also say a little bit about。
why are we going through the book,。
a little bit more about。
why are we going through this book in this season.。
So the first thing is,。
Galatian Christians, they were also losing their way.。
They were losing their faith.。
They were not on the right track.。
Paul had, the apostle Paul had founded the church.。
He planted it, it's interesting, he was actually sick.。
So him being sick led to him ministering to people。
which then started the church.。
I love how God works.。
It wasn't planned, but God worked。
and established that church.。
And so after some time, after these churches were settled,。
he moved on, continued his work,。
his calling from God of proclaiming the gospel。
and planting new churches.。
But then there was a group of people。
that followed after Paul.。
And people call them different names.。
Sometimes they call them Judaizers.。
Sometimes they call them rival missionaries.。
Paul himself refers to them as agitators。
in the letter of Galatians.。
Now, what was going on?。
What was happening?。
Well, they came in after Paul。
and they said that Paul didn't give them。
the full gospel message.。
He only shared half of it with them.。
And basically, they also questioned his apostleship.。
They're like, he's just a second-rate apostle.。
And so let us share with you the full gospel.。
That's what they were saying.。
And so then they added to what Jesus has done.。
They added circumcision and observance of the Mosaic law.。
Now, just imagine that for a moment.。
Picture yourself in a company.。
Maybe you had a role.。
You set up the department.。
You get everything running in the way,。
systems, that everything is running smoothly and good.。
And then now you get a promotion.。
You move on to a different department.。
Somebody comes in after you.。
And then suddenly you start hearing rumors。
that this person's saying that everything that you did。
was not a good approach.。
And they start undoing all the work that you did.。
And as you're hearing about this,。
you're like, man, just whatever this person's doing,。
they're bringing this department to disaster.。
I mean, that's what Paul must have felt。
as he heard about these reports。
about these rival missionaries。
really deceiving and misleading the people.。
And so what Paul does, he decides to write a letter.。
And to defend himself as an apostle,。
to defend this gospel, and to get the wandering Galatians。
who are starting to believe what these rival missionaries。
are saying, to get them back on track.。
And so what Paul does,。
he goes back to the basics of the gospel.。
And he casts for them the vision that God has for them。
of how they can live in the fullness of the life。
that God has for them,。
that God wants to see unfold in their lives.。
And so he brings them back to the basic things。
so that they can be aligned and be set right again。
and move from being wandering。
to now being on the right track with God again.。
Now, why are we going through the book of Galatians。
at this point in time as a church?。
So we're also a new church plant.。
So similar to the Galatian churches.。
Now, there's no specific deceiving or false teachers。
who have come here, just wanna be clear about that.。
That's not why we're doing this series.。
I'm not like talking to somebody indirectly.。
But one of the things that is so essential for us。
as a new church is that we build our church,。
our community on the right foundation,。
that we build it on the gospel of Jesus Christ,。
to the good news about Jesus,。
and that we work out the implications。
of that gospel in our lives.。
There's a lot of implications for that,。
how we relate to one another,。
how God has made us family from these different backgrounds.。
And so we wanna work those things out with each other.。
But then also we wanna,。
when we had the grand opening here in this place,。
we talked about that we wanna be carriers。
of the gospel of peace to our community,。
that we wanna hold forth this good news of Jesus。
to people around us.。
Well, if we wanna do that,。
we have to be clear about what the gospel is,。
and we need to let the gospel do its own work in our lives.。
And so that's the first reason why we right now。
as a church wanna look at the book of Galatians,。
'cause we just wanna lay that right foundation,。
we wanna align ourselves right,。
and we wanna be able to confidently go。
and to share with clarity the message,。
the good news of Jesus.。
So that's the first thing.。
The second thing is, Paul in Galatians 4.19, he says this,。
"My dear children, for who I am again。
in the pains of childbirth until Christ is formed in you."。
So Paul, he's using the metaphor。
of giving a second time birth to the same baby.。
He's like, "Why do I have to do this again?。
Why do I have to go through this pain again?"。
But his heart as a Christian leader, as an apostle,。
is he really wants to see people established。
in all the fullness and all the purposes。
that Jesus has for them.。
He wants Christ to be fully formed in them.。
Now, our vision as a church is growing big people.。
And ultimately, growing big people。
is to become more like Jesus,。
is to become more Christ-like.。
And so Paul, as he was seeing。
where these false teachers were leading the Galatians,。
that would not lead to the life。
that God wants to bring about in his people.。
It would not bring the life。
where we're in keeping in step with the Spirit。
that bears the fruit of the Spirit.。
And then Paul wants to see that life unfold。
so that the Galatian Christians,。
they can live an empowered life,。
that they can be empowered disciples of Jesus,。
you know, who are led and empowered by the Spirit.。
Because whatever the false teachers were paddling。
was a spiritual dead end.。
It didn't produce anything good。
'cause it was devoid of the Spirit of God。
and devoid of the power of God, what they were claiming.。
So those are the reasons why we are going through。
the book of Galatians at this point in time.。
Of course, we're gonna unpack more as we go through this.。
But today, we're gonna start off by looking at。
how does Paul address the Galatians?。
How does he help them get back on track?。
How does he help them find that life。
that God is calling them and wanting them to have?。
How does he lead them back to that?。
And so that's what I wanna look at with you today。
in this message.。
And so we're in Galatians chapter one, verse one.。
So let me read this to you.。
It says, "Paul, an apostle,。
sent not from man nor by man,。
but by Jesus Christ and God the Father,。
who raised them from the dead。
and all the brothers and sisters with me。
to the churches in Galatia.。
Grace and peace to you from God our Father。
and the Lord Jesus Christ,。
who gave himself for our sins to rescue us。
from the present evil age,。
according to the will of God the Father,。
to whom be glory forever and ever, amen."。
I'm astonished that you are so quickly。
deserting the one who called you to live。
in the grace of Christ。
and are turning to a different gospel,。
which is really no gospel at all.。
Evidently, some people are throwing you into confusion。
and are trying to pervert the gospel of Christ.。
But even if we or an angel from heaven。
should preach a gospel other than the one we preach to you,。
let them be under God's curse.。
As I have already said, so now I say again,。
if anybody is preaching to you a gospel other。
than what you accepted,。
let them be under God's curse.。
And now, am I now trying to win the approval。
of human beings or of God?。
Or am I trying to please people?。
If I still were trying to please people,。
I would not be a servant of Christ.。
Wow, that's a lot, right?。
There's a lot to unpack there.。
So how does Paul start addressing the Galatians。
who are losing their way。
and is trying to get them to come back?。
Well, there's a lot of things he does.。
The first thing is he actually really names the problem。
and the issue.。
So he addresses what the problem is.。
And so actually most of this addresses what the problem is.。
And there's two main problems.。
Well, let me just focus on these verses six and seven.。
So there he says,。
"I'm astonished that you were so quickly deserting。
"the one who called you to live in the grace of Christ。
"and are turning to a different gospel,。
"which is really no gospel at all.。
"Evidently, some people are throwing you into confusion。
"and are trying to pervert the gospel of Christ."。
So Paul, he is astonished.。
He is exasperated.。
He is dumbfounded.。
Like, what's wrong with you people?。
That's what he's saying.。
Like, what happened?。
I was just there with you not that long ago.。
And now suddenly you're on this totally different track.。
I mean, he really can't help himself,。
but expresses his surprise.。
And they were deserting the,。
they were not living anymore,。
moving away from living in the grace of Christ.。
That's what he says.。
So the story of Galatians。
actually points to all of our tendencies.。
That we are, what's that song, "Prone to Wander," right?。
What's the actual, it's a hymn.。
I don't know hymns that well.。
But there's a line that says, "Prone to Wander."。
Well, that's us.。
We're prone to wander.。
But people, we get off track all the time.。
But God had done this incredible saving work。
in the Galatians' life.。
And Paul, he takes them actually back to their experience.。
Because when Paul preached the gospel message,。
God called the Galatians to themselves.。
You know, whenever the gospel message is preached,。
God calls people to himself。
through the preaching of the gospel.。
And they responded with faith.。
And they received the Holy Spirit,。
experienced God's power working in their lives.。
And so Paul is taking them back to it.。
And then he's, but then he's like,。
but why are you now so quickly deserting。
the one who called you?。
Why are you turning away from him?。
And they're turning their backs on God's grace.。
So what was happening?。
And then he says that they're returning to a non-gospel,。
that the gospel message was perverted,。
or they perverted the gospel of Christ.。
So what was this message?。
Well, the rival missionaries,。
they added something to the gospel message.。
So instead of it just being Christ's saving work,。
it's like they added a plus.。
And then it was also circumcision。
and observance of the law that was needed.。
And Paul is saying that by doing that,。
they are completely changing the gospel.。
It's not a gospel at all anymore when we do that.。
Because now what happens when you add something to,。
when there's something else that is needed。
to bring you into God's family,。
to make you a Christian besides Jesus'。
saving work on the cross,。
what happens is you start putting Jesus aside。
because you don't really need Jesus.。
And you start putting our own efforts in the center。
of law observing, of doing this, of doing that.。
And so Paul is saying like,。
and that changes everything.。
That is no longer good news。
because then you becoming part of God's family,。
you living the empowered life has to do with you,。
not with Jesus.。
And so let me try to,。
we're gonna unpack this more throughout the series.。
This is today just scratching the surface with this.。
But let me unpack this a little bit more.。
So I have a definition of what the gospel is.。
So the heart of the gospel message。
is that Christ died for our sins,。
that he freed us from the power of sin。
and evil over our lives,。
filled us with his Holy Spirit。
and brought us into a personal relationship with God.。
Our right standing with God is 100% the work of Christ.。
100%, not like 80/20.。
We come empty handed to God.。
There is nothing that we can do out of our own effort。
to earn the right standing with God.。
We simply respond with repentance and faith。
to the good news and receive the gift of salvation.。
And whenever we add things to the gospel,。
then suddenly we start relying on our own efforts。
and we still do that today.。
We still add things to the gospel message.。
Maybe it's like if you wanna be really a Christian,。
you not only need to believe in Jesus。
and receive his forgiveness。
and come to him with repentance, faith,。
but you also need to believe these certain doctrines。
that a particular church holds。
and you need to do these certain actions.。
And so then we're putting extra requirements。
in the way of people who God wants to come to,。
that God wants for them to come to himself.。
And then really what this, if you think about it too,。
is if it depends on us, what if we really have messed up?。
What if our life is such a mess?。
I mean, it would be hopeless for people like us。
when our life is such a mess.。
How could we come to Jesus if it depends on us?。
But because it's 100% the work of Jesus,。
the saving work, that's why anyone can come。
and God can restore and transform your life。
and make you part of his family.。
And so Paul is saying the problem is,。
and it's not a gospel at all,。
is because they have added to the saving work of Christ,。
they have added these additional requirements.。
And that is a non-gospel,。
it's a perversion of the gospel of Jesus Christ.。
So that's what Paul's saying, that's the issue,。
because it's not just a little,。
oh, he did just have a little bit of a different pain,。
no, it's a completely different thing.。
So this is the analysis of Paul from the situation.。
So that's the first thing that he does,。
he takes the Galatian to the analysis of the situation.。
Like this is completely different, this is no gospel,。
you are being misled by this.。
But then the second thing that Paul does,。
he actually takes them also back。
to the grace and peace of Jesus.。
He takes them back to the gospel message themselves。
because they're wondering, they've lost track,。
they've lost their way.。
And what do we do when we lose our way?。
Well, we come back to the cross of Jesus,。
we come back to the grace of Jesus.。
And we allow Jesus to minister to us,。
we come again empty-handed and say,。
Jesus, I'm sorry, forgive me.。
And we receive this grace again,。
and we are strengthened and we are renewed。
in our discipleship, in our relationship.。
And so Paul, and this starts in verse three,。
he takes them, he gives a normal greeting.。
So actually, let me read this.。
It says this, grace and peace to you from God our Father。
and our Lord Jesus Christ, who gave himself for our sins。
to rescue us from the present evil age。
according to the will of our God and Father.。
So grace and peace is like the normal standard greeting。
that Paul uses, and it's a summary of the gospel message.。
Galatians is the only letter where Paul expands。
on that greeting, where he further unfolds。
what the gospel message entails.。
And it might have been even like。
a early Christian confession.。
And so he takes them back to this message。
that he has proclaimed and wants to lead them back。
to this place of where they come empty handed,。
where it doesn't depend on their works,。
and where they just say, Jesus, I need you,。
I surrender to you, I need you to forgive me,。
I need you to get me back on track because I'm off track.。
And that's how the Galatians started, right?。
So he's taking them also back。
to how they first became Christians.。
And I don't know if you ever do that.。
If you ever, in your own story,。
go back to what Jesus has done, I think we forget, right?。
We forget this amazing work that Jesus has done,。
we get distracted.。
And so Paul is taking them back to this amazing moment。
when they first became a Christian.。
And actually as Christians,。
we need to continue to return to that.。
And we need to continue to receive the gospel message.。
The gospel message doesn't only bring us。
into the family of God, it actually also helps us。
with continuing to live the Christian life。
because we live by the grace and mercy of God.。
And we continuously need it.。
Now, I was a few years back,。
I had, I was in Chum Shui Po with some pastors。
and Francis Chan was there。
and he was telling us about something,。
I don't remember what he was talking about.。
And, but I remember just sitting there。
and listening to Francis Chan.。
If you know Francis Chan, he's a well-known pastor,。
he was here in Hong Kong for a while.。
There's just something about him.。
And as he was talking, was like,。
I could tell man, this guy spends time with Jesus.。
Like he spends time in Jesus's presence.。
And as I was listening to him, I was like,。
I just was feeling the urge to go spend time with Jesus.。
'Cause I had been wandering,。
you know, I had been gotten a little bit lost.。
And so actually after the meeting,。
I called my then boss, Carla, Pastor Carla,。
and I said, "Hey, Carla,。
I need to go spend some time with Jesus."。
And she of course said, "Yes."。
You know, so I went and spent some time with Jesus.。
But I wonder for us, some of us here today,。
maybe that's what you need to do.。
Is not keep going with whatever you've been doing,。
but actually going back and spending some time。
in intimacy with Jesus.。
Reading his word, maybe even reading passages。
that were about Jesus's death, resurrection,。
about the gospel message.。
Just let the Holy Spirit do a renewing work in your life.。
So Paul takes the Galatians back to their beginning.。
He says, "Man, I've worked in your life.。
Why you suddenly need something else?"。
And he wants them to be renewed as they just dwell。
and meditate and spend time with Jesus.。
But Paul, he keeps hammering away at things.。
And so one thing he does, he declares a curse.。
Did that surprise anyone?。
Right, a lot of times you don't really look at passages。
where people are cursed.。
And so Paul declares a curse on anyone。
who proclaims a different gospel。
than the one that he had shared with them.。
Well, that's intense, right?。
So you can tell this is a serious matter.。
It's not a little thing.。
So I wanna read verse eight to you.。
It says this, "But even if we or an angel from heaven。
should preach a gospel other than the one preached to you,。
let them be under God's curse."。
So Paul is giving them a hypothetical situation.。
Even if an angelic being would come。
and would declare something else,。
they are under curse, he should not believe them,。
even if that were the case.。
And so then he moves from a hypothetical。
to the actual situation.。
In verse nine, he says this.。
"As we have already said, so now I say it again,。
if anybody is preaching to you a gospel。
other than what you accepted,。
let them be under God's curse."。
Well, that's what was happening, right?。
There was a gospel being preached.。
But it's interesting, he doesn't name the agitators.。
He doesn't say, you know, Billy Bob is under curse。
because he preached a different gospel.。
He just gives this general statement.。
Anyone, including himself.。
So Paul is not looking for allegiance to himself.。
What he wants is bring the Galatians back to allegiance。
to the true gospel message,。
that they are committed to it, that they protect it,。
that they understand it, that they guard it.。
I think that's a word for us as a church,。
that we have an allegiance to the gospel message.。
That we protect it, that we guard it,。
that we're careful with it ourselves.。
So Paul, again, he's just bringing them back.。
It's all about the gospel, bringing them back,。
you know, from all these different angles.。
And then it's interesting, in verse 10, he says this.。
"Am I now trying to win the approval。
of human beings or of God?。
Or am I trying to please people?。
If I were still trying to please people,。
I would not be a servant of Christ."。
Now, apparently the rival missionaries,。
they had accused Paul of being a people pleaser.。
That he proclaimed the gospel that people wanted to hear,。
that was just meeting the itching of their ear.。
That he left out the complicated parts,。
that he only gave them half,。
and he left away the observing the law and circumcision.。
He left away the hard parts.。
And Paul is, I mean, he's already said verses one through nine,。
you know, it's already written all that.。
And he's like, "Hey, do I sound like a guy。
who's trying to please people here?。
Who announces curses and things?。
Do I sound like a people pleaser to you?"。
I mean, that's basically, so it's almost like ironic.。
You know, he's asking the Galatians。
who had apparently started believing in that accusation.。
And what's interesting is that it says。
that if I were still trying to please people,。
so that means Paul used to please people.。
He used to be a people pleaser.。
And I think, I don't know about you,。
people pleasing, I struggle with that.。
You know, I like people,。
I don't wanna rub anyone the wrong way.。
I like people liking me.。
I like harmony, I don't like conflict.。
So sometimes it's just easier to people please, right?。
So I think there's actually another thing。
that gets us off track when we please people。
instead of pleasing God.。
It's also a way that we wander away from God.。
And Paul is saying that he used to do that,。
but something has changed, something has transformed him.。
And we even know what transformed。
because he talks about moving from being a people pleaser。
to now being a servant of Christ and pleasing God.。
So there was somewhere along the way,。
whether that, and I think this was already。
during his Christian journey,。
not that he became a Christian,。
then suddenly he stopped pleasing people completely.。
I think there was still some time。
where that needed to be worked out in his life.。
But where he was committed to doing God's will。
above all else, where he was committed to serving Jesus。
and not to make, you know, please people。
and do what they wanted to hear.。
Now, what are some ways that we please people today?。
Well, we do that in businesses, in our workplaces.。
We do that in our relationships.。
We do that, it happens in the education field,。
families, social media.。
Just think of social media.。
When you create a post, carefully crafted,。
hours spent, the right filter.。
Actually, I'm not even good at social media myself.。
So I'm probably the wrong person to talk about this.。
You know, doing this incredible IG story.。
I mean, what are we looking for?。
We're looking for people's approval of us。
that affirm our worth, that say, wow, you're amazing.。
Isn't that true?。
I think so.。
And we also want to avoid getting backlash.。
Has anyone ever gotten backlash。
on some of their social media posts?。
I have.。
I once had 100 messages.。
I touched a subject in the US。
that was about gun violence。
after the Las Vegas shooting,。
and it got really personal.。
We were talking about why do we have。
so many automatic weapons and blah, blah, blah.。
So honestly, after that experience,。
I also am a little bit careful what I say.。
I don't want to deal with the backlash.。
But when I was a pastor in the US,。
I wanted to immerse myself in the community,。
not just the Christian community,。
but actually just the community where I was living.。
And so I decided to volunteer in a library,。
in a public library.。
So I helped out with cleaning the office, the background.。
I started shelving books, whatever they needed.。
I just helped out and was getting to know people。
while I was doing that.。
So after being there for a while,。
one of the employees asked me。
to start scanning out 20 books。
or checking out 20 books。
and then just put them in the return box.。
And I do that multiple times.。
So I started doing that.。
And after a while, I was thinking,。
I was like, what am I doing here?。
Why am I checking out books in the library,。
taking them from their shelf,。
put them in the return box?。
And so I realized that I was somehow。
manipulating some book circulation statistics or something。
that probably was needed for whether it's local。
or government funding or something.。
But you know what?。
I was a people pleaser.。
I kept doing it.。
Now it bothered me so much the next week。
that when I came back, I was like,。
if he asked me to do it,。
I'm gonna say that I don't wanna do it.。
And so that's what I'm doing.。
And truth of the matter, I'm volunteering, right?。
What do I have to lose?。
So even so stupid to even try to please someone。
where you're volunteering.。
(audience laughing)。
But then think about when it's in places。
where it really matters.。
You know, when it's about a family,。
where not you're gonna have a paycheck。
and you ask to compromise and manipulate something。
or evade taxes or whatever it may be.。
Then it's different.。
So that's one way that we also get off track.。
And Paul, he's giving us an example of,。
you know, when we have security。
of Jesus's work in our lives,。
when we can just rest in that we are loved,。
we are accepted, you know, by God,。
then that actually frees us up。
to the need to be people pleasers.。
You know, it can be really transformative。
as our identity in Christ gets more and more solid.。
We have less and less the need to need to please people.。
And so Paul was encouraging the Galatians。
also in the strong identity formation,。
you know, that they more and more become people。
who choose to please God and instead of pleasing man.。
Now, where does all of this leave us?。
And I wanna invite the worship team to come up at this point.。
All right, at the beginning of the sermon, I asked,。
so what do you do when you lose your way as a Christian?。
How do you find your way back into the life。
that God is calling you to live?。
And we saw several things.。
For one, maybe we understand what has misled us。
or taken us away from the life of God in the first place.。
And then maybe today as I was sharing,。
there was actually some things that came up for yourself,。
like, where you're like, wow, it can be business,。
it can be other priorities, it can be many different things.。
Can be people pleasing.。
But then we also looked, what does Paul do?。
Well, he takes them back to the gospel.。
He takes them back to this when they encountered Jesus。
for the first time and experienced just as love and grace。
where they came empty handed to him, they had nothing.。
And he received them, he brought them into his family.。
That was not because they met some circumcision。
or other requirements or believed these 20 doctrines。
and did 20 acts of service a day.。
It was just because Jesus loves them,。
forgives them and gives them grace.。
And so, and then we saw that Paul also just shows。
that he really wants us, the gospel to be centered。
in our life, that we meditate on it,。
that we don't lose track of it。
because it also helps us as a church, as individuals,。
to stay on track of what Jesus has for us,。
that we live by his grace and mercy.。
And when you live by grace instead of your own achievements,。
you're less judgmental, you're less prideful。
because you know you don't deserve it.。
And you just really live a different life.。
And so that's where Jesus is inviting us.。
He goes, I wanna invite everyone to stand.。
And if you've been wondering, you know what,。
whatever it may be, if you feel like, man,。
I've gotten off track in my faith,。
maybe I'm not as passionate as I wanna be,。
maybe I'm totally doing illegal, wrong things,。
pleasing people, but you know, whatever it may be,。
I wanna invite you to actually just come right now.。
Jesus is here, just to come to him,。
to turn to him, to his presence。
and just to receive his grace and forgiveness again.。
And I wanna encourage you to just,。
if that's you, just stretch out your hands before,。
you know, just love to pray over you right now.。
If you're saying, Jesus, I need you,。
I'm sorry, I've wondered, will you show me your grace again?。
Just stretch out your hand and let me pray over you.。
So Jesus, I thank you that you are the God。
who brings people back on track.。
You meet us in our wondering,。
we're unfaithful, but you are faithful.。
You love us and you love showing us your grace.。
You love showing us your goodness.。
And I pray for everyone right now。
that feels like they've been off track,。
that you renew them right now through your forgiveness,。
that you renew them through your grace,。
through your love, through acceptance,。
and that you strengthen them.。
That you strengthen the resolve to be servants of you,。
to please you.。
I pray that you root them deeper and deeper。
in your love for them,。
and the identity that you give us as your beloved children.。
I pray, Holy Spirit, that you make that real,。
that this is something we can feel and we know.。
(gentle music)。
Thank you, Holy Spirit.。
Thank you for your work right now.。
Thank you, Jesus, for your grace.。
Thank you for your mercy.。
Thank you that in you, we can always start anew.。
Doesn't matter what has happened.。
So I pray for your blessing over us as a church,。
that you strengthen us with your grace,。
that you pour your love over us,。
I pray this in your name Jesus. Amen. Let's let's worship.。
