as you would have him speak this morning.。
It's in your name we pray, amen.。
- Can we thank Promise as always?。
Promise, amazing.。
It's so good to be back.。
Honestly, it's so great to be back.。
I have been away for four months.。
If you're new to the Vine, like Promise said,。
it's an honor to meet you today.。
I'm looking forward to getting to know you。
a little bit more over the next couple of months.。
But it's a real privilege to kind of come back.。
I came back last Sunday.。
I was sitting here in the front last Sunday.。
I didn't have anything to do, which was awesome.。
So I was able just to connect with everybody.。
A lot of you came and said hello。
and gave me hugs and stuff like that,。
which was such a blessing.。
I really did feel welcomed home,。
which was a wonderful thing.。
But I think more important than that,。
as I sat there throughout the three services。
across last Sunday, as I listened to Ellison。
preach an incredible word,。
and as I sat under the ministry of our team and worship,。
I realized just how much the church has grown,。
how much the church has flourished。
in the four months that I've been away,。
how the spiritual health of the church。
is deeper and richer and more mature than it has been。
since I can honestly remember.。
And it honestly is such a privilege as a senior leader。
to step out of your church context for four months,。
come back, and the church is thriving and growing。
and deeper in its relationship with Jesus.。
So I just wanna really honor all of our leaders here,。
the pastoral team, the eldership,。
everybody who has been kind of taking charge。
and looking after everything。
whilst I've been gone.。
It truly is an incredible thing to step back。
and realize that I don't need to be here.。
And it's so funny, like about two weeks before I came back,。
I'm walking in Spain.。
I'll tell you a little bit more about that in a minute.。
I'm walking in Spain,。
I get a phone call from a congregation member,。
and they're like, "Andrew, things are going so well.。
"You don't need to come back."。
(audience laughing)。
(laughing)。
I was like, "Oh, that's nice."。
(laughing)。
No, no, it was awesome.。
And it is honestly such a privilege。
to be able to actually say that I don't come back。
'cause you guys need me to come back.。
I come back 'cause this is my home,。
and I am so excited to be back with you,。
and looking forward, as I've said,。
to getting to know some of you that I don't know.。
My last message that I preached here。
was back on June 30th,。
just a day before I stepped on the sabbatical.。
I stepped on the sabbatical the very next day,。
and on that Sunday, I brought a message。
around the prayer of Jabez,。
and I said on that Sunday that actually,。
when we misinterpret or we misunderstand。
the prayer of Jabez, I think so much.。
We often have thought that that's a prayer of prosperity,。
a prayer of blessing, of God expanding us,。
but actually, when you dig into the story,。
you realize that, I said on that Sunday,。
you realize that Jabez's name,。
his mother calls him Jabez。
because that name literally sounds in the Hebrew。
like the word he who causes pain,。
and his mother had had this massive child pain。
in giving birth to Jabez,。
so she names him the one who caused me pain,。
and I said that Sunday that Jabez has grown up。
with this label placed upon him,。
and this label has shifted him。
and molded him as a man as he's grown up,。
and he's constantly been under the pressure。
of this label that says I am one who causes pain,。
and in his prayer, as well as saying,。
God, would you come and do this for me,。
at the end of the prayer, he says this profound thing.。
He says, so that I will no longer be one who causes pain.。
In other words, his prayer is a prayer for liberation。
from the labels that had hurt him and held him back.。
It's a powerful prayer, and I said that Sunday。
that I resonate with that prayer。
because I'm stepping into my sabbatical,。
and I'm realizing that there are labels。
that I'm carrying with me.。
I realize that there are some things。
that over the last number of years of ministry,。
whether meaning to do it or not,。
some people have said some things that have hurt me,。
said some things that I've had to carry around with me,。
and that maybe I've taken on board too much,。
and I've not been able to shake,。
and it's molded and shaped the way I think。
and the way I act, and I realize。
that I had still some deep insecurities inside of me.。
There were labels I was carrying as a pastor。
that I needed to deal with,。
and I knew that sabbatical was my time。
to come before the Lord and try to shift。
some of those things.。
Prayer of Jabez was my prayer。
that I may no longer still think this about me.。
Alongside of that, the reality for me。
is that I'm turning 50 in February,。
just in a few months' time.。
You clap.。
You clap, but I realize that I am now。
officially very, very old.。
And as I am thinking about turning 50 in February,。
I have to say I'm having these thoughts。
of like, oh my gosh, the average age。
here at the Vine over our three services is 29.。
I am no longer 29.。
I'm a long way away from 29.。
And so I've been wrestling as well。
with these sorts of, am I past my use by date?。
Am I no longer relevant for the young people?。
There's a lot of, I can see a lot of young people here.。
Am I no longer relevant?。
There's some young people over here too, don't worry.。
But am I no longer relevant。
to the young people in this church?。
I'm turning 50, I'm old, what am I gonna do?。
And that actually sparked me thinking like,。
well, what am I gonna do for the rest of my life?。
You know, like my life is almost over.。
Like what am I gonna do for the next 15, 20 years?。
How am I going to lead the Vine?。
What am I gonna do here?。
What's the next steps for me?。
And I have all of this stuff coming together.。
So as I stepped on sabbatical on July 1,。
I took out my journal, which is my iPhone,。
and I wrote in my iPhone some critical questions。
that I wanted God to answer during my sabbatical.。
Let me read you the actual questions。
I wrote down in my journal.。
How much longer do you want me to be a pastor?。
Because I realized that being a pastor。
is a calling from you, and I can't assume。
that that calling's always gonna be there.。
So how much longer, Lord, do you want me to do this thing。
that you've called me to do?。
Connected to that, I was asking this,。
how much longer should I lead the Vine for?。
'Cause as you guys have experienced in the last four months,。
we have an incredible team of people here.。
We have this embarrassment of riches。
when it comes to talent and heart and calling。
and the work of the spirit amongst us by our pastoral team.。
How much longer should I lead for?。
Maybe it's time for me to hand over,。
'cause I'm turning 50, right?。
You know, and this is all going in my head.。
So I wrote this.。
When and how should I hand over the church。
to the next generation?。
When should that be?。
When, God, are you going to ask me to do that?。
And that kind of created some thoughts in me。
that weren't necessarily healthy, so I also wrote this.。
I said, what the heck will I do for my living。
if you take the church away from me?。
I'm just being honest.。
This is what I'm writing in my journal,。
'cause if you call me away or if you raise somebody else up,。
what am I gonna do for my living?。
You've taken away my living from me.。
This is my attitude, not very good, I realize,。
which led me to the next question,。
which is why am I still so filled。
with insecurity and self-doubts, right?。
And then out of that came perhaps。
the most important question of all that I wrote down.。
I said this, I said, do aliens really exist?。
'Cause I really need to know, Lord.。
No, okay, that wasn't in my journal.。
Let's just rub that one out.。
We're gonna rub that out.。
Rub it out, yep, there you go.。
So that wasn't in my journal, but the rest of them were.。
So you get an idea of kind of the things。
that were on my heart as I was stepping into sabbatical,。
the things that I was seeking God's will for,。
and what I was wanting is to get a revelation from Him。
in these areas of my life so that I could come back here。
and give you, kind of partake and put that revelation。
into us, and I'm super excited to announce here。
this afternoon, it's an important announcement.。
I'm gonna announce to you that over my sabbatical,。
God did not talk to me about any of those things.。
Not one thing at all.。
None of those things were what God spoke to me about.。
Have you ever had that with God?。
You know, like you show up with a laundry list of things,。
like here's all the things that you need。
to speak to me about, and God's like,。
(laughing)。
as in like those are the important ones.。
No, Andrew, actually, here are the things。
that I need to talk to you about.。
So let's just wipe that away,。
'cause God just wiped that away.。
And instead, about two weeks into my sabbatical,。
God comes to me and He says, Andrew,。
there are actually only three things。
I wanna talk to you about over the next four months.。
He says, I wanna talk to you about。
your relationship with me, your relationship with yourself,。
and your relationship with your wife.。
And He said, nothing else is important.。
And I know you've got all these questions on your heart.。
I know you're asking for me to do so much,。
but Andrew, actually, only three things really matter.。
And if you wanna be a healthy pastor,。
and a healthy leader, and a healthy human being,。
these are the only three things that are on my heart,。
you and me, you and yourself, you and your wife, Chris.。
And so over those four months, God began to speak to me。
about how I needed to refresh my relationship with Him,。
which I desperately needed to do.。
I realized that I had become a bit dry,。
and that my relationship with God。
was driven more by the job I had,。
rather than the joy I had to be His son.。
I realized that there was so much。
of those insecurities within me,。
which meant that my relationship with myself。
was not where it should be,。
and I wasn't operating out of a place of confidence。
in being a son of God.。
And instead, other things were getting in the way.。
And I realized, and this was the one。
that really opened my spirit up,。
and really kinda just changed my heart,。
I realized that my marriage was not where it should be.。
I realized it was because I had been so selfish,。
that there was a selfishness in me,。
which meant that so oftentimes,。
my wife got the worst part of me out of my day than the best.。
And I realized that as a typical pastor,。
there was that cliche that I was putting ministry。
over the home, and that that needed to change,。
and God was concerned about that.。
One of the things I wrote in my diary about my wife。
is God basically said to me,。
"You do not have any idea the power that there is。
"and the gift that I've given you in Chris."。
And so there was a journey for me。
in rediscovering the wonder of my wife.。
I love my wife, and I always have loved my wife,。
but this deepening expression of what it is to be with her.。
And so I was hoping to come back。
with some great revelation for you,。
but what I return with is simply a great relationship,。
great relationship with him and with myself。
and a growing and better relationship with my wife.。
Without sounding too cheesy about it,。
and I don't apologize for it,。
here's the reality, I really, really love Jesus again.。
Like, I really do.。
I feel like my whole life has shifted。
into this new place of peace,。
because there's a vibrancy and a beauty and a wonder。
of a daily falling in love with Jesus again.。
And it's weird, but it's because I spent。
so much time with Jesus.。
I mean, one of the things I did on my sabbatical。
was this thing called the Camino de Santiago.。
The Camino de Santiago is a 34-day walking pilgrimage.。
It's 800 kilometers from this place in France。
called Saint-Jean-Pied-de-Port。
to Santiago de Compostela in the west coast of Spain.。
And this journey takes about 34 days.。
You're walking on average about 25 kilometers a day,。
so that's anywhere from about five to seven hours。
of walking with a big, heavy backpack on every day.。
As you walk, you can be in a place of solitude.。
Oftentimes, you're walking on your own.。
You may not see another human being for a couple of hours.。
You visit churches throughout the day.。
Sometimes at night, you'll stay in churches.。
The churches will open up their place。
and you can sleep on the floor of the church.。
You're basically doing a pilgrimage。
from one place to another.。
And the reason why the Camino is so famous。
and such a sacred space is because it was first walked。
in 812, not 1812, 812, in the ninth century.。
They were actually disciples of the Apostle James。
and they had what they believed。
were the bones of the Apostle James.。
And so they wanted to take those bones to Santiago,。
so they walked the bones from the south of France。
all the way to Santiago.。
And that journey that they did is exactly the same path。
that you now walk when you do the Camino Frances in Spain.。
And it was a great privilege to be able to walk every day。
with no other responsibilities other than to spend。
about five, six, seven hours in and out of prayer。
and in the company of Jesus.。
It was such a beautiful thing.。
I don't know if you're anything like me,。
but usually when I spend more time with people,。
I actually like them less.。
Is anyone ever like that?。
You know when you spend more time with people。
and you come to discover that actually。
they're not the people that you thought they were, right?。
Or you spend more time with people。
and then you discover that actually your flaws。
and your brokenness is kind of reflected in them。
and you kind of actually don't like yourself around them,。
right, or maybe you spend time with them。
and you had put them on a pedestal。
and you thought they would be like this。
and yet when you spent more time with them,。
you realize they're not quite the human being。
I thought they were.。
We often, when we spend more time with people,。
don't like them as much.。
It is not like that with Jesus.。
See, when you spend more time with Jesus,。
you cannot help but fall more in love with him。
'cause he's all grace and love and kindness and mercy。
and you get to see him in different ways。
and you get to experience his voice in your life。
like never before.。
And even though at times that voice is challenging。
and not always easy to hear,。
it's always from a place of love to form and to shape you。
into the person he's created you to be。
and when you spend copious amounts of time with Jesus,。
you're only going to love him more。
and so I return to you not with some great revelation。
but simply a love of Christ.。
Now, I know what some of you are probably thinking。
as you sit there.。
You're thinking, well, that's all well and good。
for you, Andrew.。
You had four months off.。
You had a sabbatical.。
Oh, isn't that nice?。
Give me four months off work, put a backpack on me。
and send me to Spain and have all that nice food。
and all that nice wine, I would love Jesus more too.。
(congregation laughing)。
You know what?。
You would be right.。
You would love Jesus more.。
And so although I've had this amazing experience。
on this Camino and during my sabbatical。
and I come back to you and say, I love Jesus more,。
you're sitting there like, yeah, that's great for you。
but what about me?。
And I hear that and I think this actually raises。
one of the most important questions。
that we all have to wrestle with.。
How do I deepen my love with Jesus in my normal life?。
Like in the normal busyness and stress。
and all the responsibilities I have,。
how do I deepen my love for Jesus in the here and the now,。
in the craziness of Hong Kong and in the work。
that I have to do and the responsibilities that I have。
and the grind that I'm in?。
How do I recapture, refresh something of a passion。
for Jesus in the here and the now?。
And that's what is on my heart for you as I do return.。
I wanna share today but also in a number。
of one-off messages in 2025, some answers to that question,。
ways in which I think all of us can actually deepen。
and refresh in our relationship with Jesus。
without having to go away for four months。
and do a sabbatical.。
I hope at some point you do get a chance。
to do the sabbatical and I highly recommend the Camino。
if you ever do.。
But isn't it the point of Christian discipleship。
that we flourish and grow in Him。
in the moments of everyday life?。
So what I wanna do today is share the first。
of these ideas with you.。
And what I wanna share with you today,。
I believe actually has the power to shift so much。
of your thinking about God and who He is in your life.。
In fact, so much of perhaps shifting your relationship。
with Him that I think if you put into practice this week。
the things we're about to talk about,。
I do genuinely believe that you will have。
a revolutionized relationship with Jesus.。
I think what I'm about to talk about is that important.。
So I wanna pray, I wanna pray that you open your ears。
and my ears will open too to what the Holy Spirit。
wants to say, is that okay?。
Let's pray.。
And let us ask that as we come into this moment now,。
that Father, you would open our ears and our eyes。
to see you in new and fresh ways.。
Lord, we long to love you more.。
And Father, we pray that we would be able。
to do this together as a community.。
We thank you for this in Jesus' name.。
To introduce you to this little tip。
or this little way of thinking,。
let me tell you a story about what happened to me。
whilst I was on the Camino.。
The Camino, as I said, is 800 kilometers long。
and the majority of the time you're walking。
in rural parts of Spain, beautiful environments.。
And you might come across a couple of villages。
as you're walking throughout the day.。
And like I say, you could walk for hours。
without really even seeing another human being.。
But throughout the walk, you actually come。
to a number of cities during those 800 kilometers.。
Pamplona, where they do the chasing of the bulls,。
a place called Legrono, Burgos, and then one city,。
which is about 500 kilometers into the walk.。
So for me, that was about three weeks into walking.。
It's called Leon.。
And Leon is one of the largest cities。
that you come across during the walk.。
There's about 200,000 people that live in Leon.。
And it was interesting 'cause just before Leon,。
I'd been walking for about a week and a half,。
a lot of it on my own, and I'd been。
in a beautiful place of solitude.。
Now, I'm an extrovert with a capital E,。
but it was amazing for me to be in this rural environment,。
spending a lot of time with Jesus.。
And it felt so good that when I entered into Leon that day,。
and there's like 200,000 people living。
in this hustling, bustling city,。
it was very jarring for me.。
And I actually didn't really enjoy it,。
even though I normally love big cities.。
And I was like, I'm so kind of synced in to this thing here。
that this big city now is kind of a little bit annoying.。
And I made the decision that night。
that I was gonna wake up earlier the next day,。
earlier than I normally do,。
and I was just gonna start walking.。
I wanted to get out of Leon。
and get back into those rural moments.。
And so I did, I normally would start walking。
about eight in the morning this day.。
I started walking about seven in the morning.。
And as I'm walking, I'm in urban Leon,。
so just busy streets, I'm walking along.。
And as I'm walking, I see this man,。
and he's on like an electric scooter.。
You know those like little scooters, not the big ones,。
but just like those little electric ones。
where you can zip into a city.。
So he's riding one of those, and he starts shouting.。
Now, I couldn't tell from where I was。
and where he was at the time what he was shouting,。
but it sounded like, "Nasdaq, Nasdaq," like this, okay?。
Which, I don't speak Spanish,。
but I figure he's saying something in Spanish.。
I figure he's saying, "Get out of my way,"。
'cause he was coming pretty quick at me.。
So I kind of moved with my backpack out the way,。
and I kind of stood against the wall like this。
so that he had ample room to zip by me.。
But he zipped right straight up to me.。
He looks me in the eye, and he goes,。
"Pastor, Pastor Andrew, Pastor Andrew from the Vine."。
(audience laughing)。
And I'm like, "I can never get away!"。
No, I'm just kidding, I didn't say it.。
I was like, "Yes, yes, I am Pastor Andrew."。
I hadn't thought about myself like that for a while,。
but "Pastor Andrew from the Vine, yes I am."。
He's like, "Oh, I cannot believe it!"。
Anyway, turns out his name is Emmanuel.。
And Emmanuel was one of our asylum seekers。
who was a part of our refugee ministry back in 2018.。
Him and his family had come here from West Africa,。
and for four years they had lived in Hong Kong,。
and we had helped them,。
and they had been a part of the Vine community.。
They'd been part of our asylum seeker and refugee ministry.。
This is Emmanuel here.。
And he was on his way that morning to work,。
because what had happened in 2018。
is that him and his family had gotten their refugee status,。
and they were moving from Hong Kong to Spain.。
So they left Hong Kong, they went to Spain.。
They decided to settle in this little town in Leon,。
and he has a business there.。
And he's scooting on his way to work.。
And actually, interesting, that morning,。
he was a little bit late leaving his house,。
so he was scootering quite quickly to try to get to work.。
And then as he's scootering down this road。
that he scoots down every single day。
for whatever number of years it had been,。
he looks and he's like, "That looks like Pastor Andrew."。
(audience laughing)。
And he comes straight up to me, he's like, "Pastor Andrew!"。
So he's like freaking out, and I'm freaking out,。
and we took a photo, and we prayed for each other,。
and it was like the most amazing thing.。
'Cause I realized if I had decided to have left my hostel。
a minute before or a minute after,。
we would have missed each other.。
If he hadn't been running late for work that day,。
he probably wouldn't have driven down。
that particular street at that particular time.。
I mean, this is one of those moments in life。
where you know God is present, amen?。
Like it's like all these things,。
all of these complicated things have all come together。
for some reason that I would be walking on that street,。
he would be scootering on that street,。
and we had a great conversation.。
I prayed for him, and he prayed for me,。
and I left there as he said goodbye and scooted off,。
and I kept walking.。
I left there thinking like, "Man, isn't God good?。
"That God would orchestrate all of this。
"so that I would know that God is with me."。
About 10 minutes later, and only the way that God does,。
God kinda comes up alongside of me.。
You ever felt like God's come alongside of you?。
No, okay.。
So God comes up alongside of me, and he's like,。
"Andrew," he's like, "It's funny, isn't it?"。
I'm like, "What?"。
He's like, "It's funny, isn't it?。
"Because that whole moment with Emmanuel and Leon,"。
he's like, "That's just often how you think。
"about my presence too."。
I'm like, "What do you mean?"。
He's like, "Well, you think that half the time。
"me meeting you is like some random encounter.。
"You think you have to orchestrate all this stuff。
"in order for me to be present in your life.。
"In fact, you think that my presence in your life。
"is so random and so rare that when it does happen,。
"you have to stop and say, 'Oh God,。
"'thank you for reminding me that you're with me.'"。
And I felt like God was beginning to unpack something。
that was deeply important for me,。
and I wanna unpack this a little bit for you today,。
'cause I think this will help to shift some things for you.。
I realize that so often my relationship with God。
is built on these, what I would call,。
random occurrences or bumping into God.。
Like I feel like I have to work really hard。
to feel like I'm in the presence of God sometimes.。
Does any of you ever feel that way?。
In fact, I know that many of you feel that way,。
'cause as I've been leading here for so many years,。
I know that so many of you have shared that with me.。
"Oh, Pastor Andrew, I really struggle。
"to sense the presence of God in my life."。
Or, "Pastor Andrew, I wish I sensed God's presence。
"like everybody else at the Vine."。
"Oh, Pastor Andrew, I came to church this week。
"and I was raising my hands and looking around,。
"but I didn't feel like God was with me."。
And so often I think as Christians,。
we can wrestle with this thought。
that we're trying as best we can to meet with God。
and have God meet with us,。
and we often can feel like He's distant or away from us.。
I wonder for you, does it ever feel like with God。
that He's more a random encounter。
than a constant presence in your life?。
Does it ever feel like that way for you?。
That maybe He's more like you bump into Him。
every once in a while in your life,。
rather than the reality that He is constantly there with you?。
I know that's how I have felt often,。
but I also know that that is not true,。
that God is always present with us at all times。
and in all ways.。
But the reality is as Christians,。
I think we can so often kind of disregard that,。
and we can so often think that He's actually distant from us,。
that He's not near us,。
and sometimes even our language can interrupt that.。
Even our language can begin to suggest。
that He is distant and away from us.。
As God was unpacking this for me,。
I was beginning to see that actually even some of the things。
that I say here at the Vine and how I lead sometimes。
actually plays into a faulty theology。
that we have to somehow invoke God's presence。
in order to meet with Him.。
I wonder if you've ever heard anybody up front at church。
say something like this.。
"Lord Jesus, this morning we invite Your presence。
to be with us."。
You ever heard that at church?。
Or perhaps you prayed something similar to that。
in your own heart in private.。
"Oh Lord, would You just come and meet me today?。
I'm nervous about this work,。
and I just invite Your Holy Spirit to come and be with me。
so that I can get through this thing in my job."。
We have this language as Christians at times。
of this idea of inviting the presence of God。
or inviting the Holy Spirit into our lives.。
And here's the issue with that, I think,。
that although there's language there,。
and maybe it's just semantics,。
but when we constantly are thinking。
that we have to invite God,。
what it really communicates。
is that we don't think God is there.。
Come on, church.。
I mean, think about it this way, right?。
Like the reason why you invite someone。
is because they are not currently present.。
This is why we've created these amazing invites for you。
for Christmas Day.。
We want you to write the name of someone on here。
who, guess what, doesn't normally come to the Vine.。
And so you can invite them to be here, are you with me?。
But it's funny because our language in church。
so often seems to back up this idea。
that God, I'm inviting you,。
which essentially means before I did that, you weren't here.。
Like I have to somehow position myself。
in order to try to get Your Spirit and Your presence to me.。
I think the second thing that this issue creates for us。
is that it kind of makes us think。
that God's presence is our determination and not His.。
In other words, that I'm responsible in some ways。
for trying to get God's presence。
either in my life or in some situation.。
And that puts a huge amount of pressure on us.。
And when it feels like for us that God is still distant,。
we think something's either wrong with us。
or we think something's wrong with God.。
And so we try to stir up within ourselves。
even more effort to try to create God's presence。
to just come 'cause He's obviously not here.。
This is what we see actually happen。
in 1 Kings 18, verse 27.。
And I love how Elijah is saying this.。
This is the moment where Elijah's up on the mountain。
and he's speaking to the prophets of Baal。
and they're trying to call down God to respond.。
He says this, he says,。
"At noon, Elijah began to taunt them.。
"'Shout louder,' he said.。
"'Surely He is a God.。
"'Perhaps He is in deep thought,。
"'or He's busy, or He's traveling.。
"'Maybe He's sleeping and must be awakened.'"。
I love the way that Elijah taunts them in this,。
but I read this and I think, man, I think we do this a lot.。
Like we think if we just shout louder,。
if we just try more, if we just hype things up,。
then God's presence may come and change everything.。
And God's standing to the side saying,。
"Don't you realize that I'm already here in my fullness?。
"Don't you realize that it's actually。
"not about you inviting me,。
"it's actually about me who's invited you?"。
The third thing I think it does is it causes us to think。
that some places are more sacred than others.。
Because in church, when we gather in a building like this。
and we invite God's presence to come,。
it's amazing, we can all feel Him.。
But when I wake up tomorrow and I go to work,。
I realize that He's not in that place.。
And I realize that, thank God that God has me there。
because I can bring the presence of God into that place.。
And God's like, "Hmm, I was there a lot longer。
"than you were, and I will be there。
"a lot longer after you left.。
"Because my presence is all here right now in its fullness."。
And actually the job of a Christian。
is not to try to invite God to come and do something.。
Perhaps the job of the Christian is to realize。
that God is already at work, already at play,。
already doing so much, and our role is not。
about inviting something that isn't there.。
Our role is about walking into something that truly is.。
And that if you can get that shift in your thinking,。
and it's a small, subtle thing,。
but if you can get that shift in your thinking,。
you're beginning to redefine your relationship with Him.。
That your encounter with the presence of God。
is not reserved for 90 minutes on a Sunday。
or community group during the week,。
or in those moments when you pray,。
but every single moment is alive with the glory of God.。
It's fascinating.。
If you study the New Testament,。
and if you look at the word inviting when it relates to God,。
it only in the New Testament ever shows up in two contexts.。
The first context is the invitation of the Holy Spirit。
to come at the moment of salvation.。
When we invite Jesus to come and be a part of our lives,。
when we invite Jesus to come and forgive us of our sins,。
and to wash us clean, and restore and renew us,。
the New Testament speaks a lot about inviting God。
to be in us and with us in the moment of salvation.。
That's context number one.。
The second context is the one。
that we're gonna be looking at at Advent.。
It's the context of inviting God。
to come at the end of all things,。
to make everything right, to come in His second coming,。
and establish heaven on earth,。
to restore and make all things new.。
The prayers in the Bible about the Spirit of God coming。
is always in relation to the second coming of Christ.。
And so you have this moment。
where they invite God for salvation,。
they're inviting God to come in the second coming,。
but in between, they're not inviting God。
to show up at every church meeting.。
And they're not doing that。
because they have a theology that tells them。
that the fullness of Christ is both within me。
and in the world.。
This is the beauty of the New Testament,。
that it teaches that when you come into salvation。
with Christ Jesus, the fullness of God's presence,。
think of this, the fullness of His presence。
comes and lives within you.。
Paul speaks about this so much,。
there's passages throughout,。
in fact, we've just thrown up a few on the screen here,。
you can look at.。
The idea of being the temple of the Holy Spirit.。
Paul says, don't you realize that the same Spirit。
that raised Jesus from the dead。
is the one that's now alive and living in you.。
It's not like you have a half measure.。
It's not like you have a little bit.。
If you believe that Jesus is your Lord and Savior,。
the fullness of Christ is in you.。
The fullness of Him is always in you,。
regardless of where you are,。
regardless of what you're doing,。
regardless of how you're acting,。
the fullness of His presence is in you.。
For some of you, that should change。
completely your relationship with Him.。
Because perhaps you've been feeling like you're distant。
or you're alone and you're feeling like,。
if only I can invite Him to come,。
if only He'll respond to my prayers,。
and He's like, I'm already fully in you.。
The other thing the New Testament says。
is that He's already fully in the world,。
that there is not a place that you could go,。
whether it's the Old Testament or the New Testament,。
the theme is the same.。
There's nowhere you can go or run away from His presence.。
He's omnipresent.。
He's in everything at all times, everywhere.。
And so the New Testament presents to us。
this picture of the fullness of the Spirit of God in us,。
the fullness of the Spirit of God around us.。
And it teaches us that Christ is fully there in person,。
when things are going great in your life。
and when things are not.。
He is there in person, in the stillness and in the storm.。
He is there in person in your life,。
when you're on your own or when you're with others.。
He is there in person, whether you're in church on a Sunday。
or you're in the office on a Monday.。
It does not change.。
And our relationship with Christ, I think,。
is so often stilted because we've decided。
that God is in some places and He's not in others,。
and we need to spend more time in the places where He is。
if we wanna grow in relationship with Him.。
And God would say, "Actually, your time in your office。
"tomorrow could be the most revolutionary time。
"in your experience with me than anything ever before,。
"'cause I'm in you fully,。
"and I'm around you fully at all times."。
So let me be real clear.。
We don't make God show up.。
Think of the arrogance that is there in thinking。
that we somehow control the presence of God.。
God decides in His authority where He is,。
and He's everywhere all the time.。
So here's the really important thing,。
and I want you to track with this.。
When it comes to the presence of God in your life,。
the issue is not inviting something that isn't there.。
The issue is in becoming more aware of what already is.。
Come on, church, are you following this?。
The issue is not in trying to invite something。
that isn't there because that puts the onus on you.。
That makes you central,。
and everything else is kind of revolving around you.。
The issue instead is just about becoming more aware。
of everything that already is,。
the fullness of His presence in you,。
the fullness of His presence around you in everything,。
and as you see it and encounter it,。
and you become more aware of it,。
it changes everything for you.。
And suddenly you realize that your life is a joy,。
that your life is something to walk into boldly。
and confidently because you've got Him in you。
and around you at all times,。
regardless of what's happening.。
And because of that, you begin to shift。
how you think you should act and be,。
that your role in relationship to Christ。
is not one of delivery.。
Lord, I deliver your Holy Spirit to this moment.。
Your role is one of discovery.。
Lord, I ask that you make me aware。
of all of the amazing things that you're currently doing。
with this group of people.。
Your role shifts from invitation, come Holy Spirit,。
and it shifts to subjugation.。
I recognize that you are here in your fullness,。
Holy Spirit, and I now come to you.。
Like Pastor Ellison was talking about last week,。
I deny myself, lay down, I pick up my cross,。
and I follow you.。
I come to you.。
The joy that there is inside of us。
to know that we are never aligned,。
that even though sometimes we may not feel it,。
even though sometimes we don't think it,。
God is always present, and that changes everything.。
I just sense for some of you, that's gonna free you,。
free you from the chains of performance and religion,。
and put you in a different place of relationship.。
The question is, how do we do this?。
How do we actually become more consciously aware。
of his presence in our lives?。
Well, let me offer you three quick things as I close.。
Here's the first thing, embrace thanksgiving.。
Embrace thanksgiving.。
Psalm 100, verse four says,。
"We enter his gates with thanksgiving on our heart.。
"We enter into his presence。
"with this reality of thanking him."。
What thanksgiving does is it subverts。
any tendency of pride in us.。
Thanksgiving kind of subverts any sense。
of entitlement we might have.。
When we walk in a general idea of thanksgiving,。
thanking God for everything that is happening。
in and around our lives, it frees us so much,。
and it enables us to begin to see God。
in the things that we never thought。
we'd be able to see him in before.。
In the Beatitudes, it says that,。
"Blessed are the pure in heart, for they will see God."。
And I think the number one way that you purify your heart,。
other than, of course, inviting the cleansing of forgiveness。
and the repentance of sin, the second beautiful way。
of purifying your heart is acting in thankfulness.。
As you walk in gratitude, man,。
this is annoying my wife, by the way.。
I am so thankful for everything right now.。
She's like, "Would you just tone down。
"the thankfulness, please?"。
But I tell you what, somebody cuts me off。
when I'm driving, and I'm like,。
"Oh my God, thank you, Lord, so much for that person.。
(audience laughing)。
"I had cold pizza yesterday.。
"Thank you, Lord, for cold pizza."。
I'm thankful for the things。
that I would never be thankful for before,。
because when you begin to walk in a place。
of thankfulness for everything, you will see God,。
where you thought you would never see him before.。
The second thing is this, be careful,。
keep an eye on your language,。
because, you see, language shapes culture.。
And if amongst ourselves, we are practicing。
the language of invitation to God all the time,。
we're actually kinda communicating something。
that we probably don't wanna be communicating.。
And while, of course, it's great to have a heart。
to wanna receive more and to be more in his presence,。
perhaps as we shift our language,。
we'll begin to shift our expectations,。
and maybe some of that negative stuff。
that hangs around the invitation language。
about being alone or God being distant。
or having to try to control him in some way,。
we might actually begin to walk in more freedom。
than we've ever walked before.。
So guard your language.。
The third thing is this, guard your awareness.。
Because if this is all about becoming more aware。
to what is already within us and around us,。
then what are the things that still are awareness。
of the presence of God in our lives?。
Those are the things we should be wrestling with.。
And so I have an exercise that I wanna encourage。
all of you to do this week.。
And if you do this, I believe that this will change。
how you approach your daily walk with Jesus.。
It's a very simple exercise.。
First of all, you ask yourself,。
"What helps me pay attention to God?"。
Write a list down, the things that help me。
to be connected to him.。
Maybe it's worship music, maybe it's prayer,。
maybe it's whatever, walking in the wilderness,。
whatever it might be.。
But what is it that helps me to connect with him?。
Second question, what hinders me。
from paying attention to him?。
In other words, what gets in the way?。
What distracts, what pulls me in the opposite direction?。
Your answer to those two questions。
will change your relationship with him.。
And so if you're willing to do this,。
I would also encourage you,。
if you're part of one of our small group communities,。
our community groups here,。
take this and bring it into your community group as well.。
And share with them, "Here's my list of things。
"that helps me to connect with Jesus.。
"Here's the things that kinda distract me from that.。
"Could you pray for me?"。
Let's talk about these together.。
And let's commit each other to recognizing。
that his presence is here.。
Somebody once described the Camino。
as an 800 kilometer cathedral.。
And that's how it felt for me.。
As I was walking in the rural areas of Spain,。
I was outdoors, sometimes it was raining,。
sometimes it was sunny, sometimes I was happy,。
sometimes I was a little bit frustrated,。
sometimes I was super tired.。
Other times I had lots of energy.。
All different emotions.。
It didn't matter where my emotional state was.。
I always felt like I was in the presence。
of the almighty king.。
It was a beautiful thing.。
Guess what?。
I came back to Hong Kong last week.。
On the day I got back, I walked in Causeway Bay.。
And I was like, this is a cathedral also.。
It's a different kind of cathedral。
than the one that I've been walking in Spain.。
But it is no less filled with the wonder and glory of Jesus.。
May you change the way that you think。
about your workplace, about the streets of our city.。
May we change the way we think about the presence of God.。
That we might actually be rebirthed,。
a freshness in our relationship with him。
because we see him and feel him in all things.。
One of my favorite theologians is the 20th century。
British theologian C.S. Lewis.。
Let me read you how he said this.。
He says this, "We may ignore, but we can nowhere evade。
"the presence of God.。
"The world is crowded with him.。
"He walks everywhere incognito.。
"And the incognito is not always hard to penetrate.。
"The real labor is to remember to attend.。
"In fact, to come and awake, still more to remain awake.。
"My desire as I come back as your pastor。
"is that I will honor and serve you。
"by remaining awake to this love of Jesus。
"that is now within me.。
"And my prayer for you, as us as a community,。
"is that we would awaken more and more to his presence."。
In the name of Jesus, everyone says.。
- Amen. - Amen.。
Would you stand with me, I'd love to pray for you.。
(pages rustling)。
And I just wanna invite you just to quieten your heart.。
(gentle music)。
And if this has been a helpful message for you。
this morning, this afternoon,。
and if it's something that has resonated with you,。
I just want us, our eyes are closed.。
Here at the Vine, we just do a simple posture。
of just opening our hands before the Lord.。
It's just nothing magical in it.。
It's just our way of signaling to the Holy Spirit。
that we're open for his ministry.。
By opening our hands, we're not inviting his presence。
to the room, 'cause of everything。
we've just been talking about.。
But by opening our hands, we are saying。
that our hearts are open,。
that we are inviting, if you will,。
the ministry of the Spirit。
to come and to do some work within us.。
And so if that's for you this morning,。
this afternoon, just open your hands, let me pray.。
Father, as we stand before you now,。
we just quieten ourselves down.。
I wanna encourage each one of you now in this moment。
just to take,。
take some silence,。
and just begin to think about the fullness。
of Christ's presence within you.。
Not one of you in this room,。
if you believe in Jesus, are alone.。
It's a lie of the enemy。
to make you feel like you are distant from him.。
(gentle music)。
He is here in his fullness in you in this moment.。
So just take a moment for some of you。
just to reflect on that.。
Not only that, but he's in his fullness around you。
in this moment, in all moments.。
He is everywhere.。
And he's inviting you。
to be awakened more and more to his activity。
that is at work around your life.。
So as you're just taking a moment in calm。
just to recognize his presence in you,。
to recognize his presence around you,。
I wonder whether you just begin to be thankful.。
Just begin to offer thanksgiving in your heart.。
Just thank him that the promises of Scripture are true,。
that you are a temple of the Holy Spirit.。
Thank him that the same Spirit。
that raised Jesus from the dead is in you.。
Thank him that you are fully in Christ as Christ is in you.。
And then begin to thank him that he loves your colleagues。
and your office and your place of employment。
and your apartment building and your family。
and the streets and neighborhoods of the city.。
He loves these places and is present in those places。
in profoundly important ways.。
Just begin to thank him that he is there.。
And then in that place of gratitude,。
I wanna pray that you would receive。
what he has for you tonight.。
So Holy Spirit, have your way.。
Don't feel like you need to rush this moment.。
Just allow the joy of the Lord。
to be rebirthed in some of you.。
I felt this in one of the earlier services,。
but I feel it again now.。
For some of you, it's been a while。
since you felt any joy in your relationship with Christ.。
One of the great fruits of the Spirit is joy,。
love, peace and joy.。
I love joy and peace.。
And so joy is this incredible fruit of the Spirit。
that's available for you.。
So Lord, I wanna pray for a rebirthing of joy。
as some people here take that step of reshifting。
how they think about you and your presence.。
As they become more awoken to the reality。
of your presence in their lives,。
Lord, I pray that joy would come in the name of Jesus.。
That joy would be a great breakthrough.。
So just, Lord, would you be at work?。
So just allow the Spirit of God。
to do whatever he wants to do。
as we respond together in worship.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
[MUSIC]。
