Well, it's the beginning of 2025.。
What I want to do is first actually do a little review of 2024 because God has been amazing.。
He's been so faithful and so good to us.。
And then I'll have a word for us for 2025.。
Now in 2024, we had our one year birthday celebration as a church.。
That was a big deal.。
So praise God for that.。
Yes, very, very subtle.。
We also established a lot of partnerships and collaborations.。
So we had YOM Shanti as one of our mission partners.。
We collaborated with Branches of Hope, which also works with refugees and asylum seekers,。
with Young Lives, which works with teen moms.。
We've partnered with Oasis Counseling and Psychotherapy Center and some of our parenting。
workshops, and also through counseling.。
And then we also partnered with a Chinese primary YMCA school in Tianshui, where several。
of our Cantonese brothers and sisters, they go twice a week teaching three different classes.。
And so these are ways that we've been getting involved in community and just serving and。
loving those around us.。
Now another thing that I'm really excited about is that we started a youth group in。
August 2024.。
And so I already see some of the volunteers sitting here.。
They're amazing.。
And this year, or towards the end of the year, I also asked Francesca and Andrew to actually。
lead the youth group.。
And so I'm really excited about what God's going to do in 2025 in the youth group.。
I already saw even just in the month or so that they led it, the energy.。
And so I'm excited about what's ahead.。
And I also wanted to ask you, church, to pray for them and pray for our youth ministry.。
So we're really excited about what God is doing there.。
Then at the beginning of 2024, we shared every year we actually need to grow in giving to。
cover our expenses, because one child is supporting us.。
And so last year, we were responsible for 20% of our expenses, but we said we need to。
move towards 40% because guess what, right now we need to cover 40% of our expenses.。
And we were able to do that.。
So praise God for his financial provision for us and thank you for your generosity and。
giving.。
And then we've also experienced incredible growth as a church family.。
We started off last year with 166 adults and 31 children.。
And in November, we were 251 adults on average between our two services and 61 children.。
So God also has done some incredible work there.。
Yes, praise God.。
And then most importantly, and that's sometimes not that easy to capture, is that people have。
come to faith.。
People have grown in faith, have moved from anxiety and fear to faith and trust and have。
experienced the healing of Jesus through Alpha, through our Sunday services, through community。
groups, through in K4C our children have experienced as well.。
And so I just wanted to take the beginning of this year to actually start off with just。
giving God thanks and praising him for the work that he's done.。
So praise God.。
And I also want to say thank you to you because the way that God works is that he works through。
his church.。
He works through his people.。
And what it actually takes is that people are willing to offer up their time, their。
talents, their gifts to serve him both inside and outside the church to do his work, to。
partner in his mission.。
And you guys have done that.。
And so thank you for faithfully serving as well.。
So incredible.。
But right now I'm excited to talk to you about 2025.。
And so today we're kicking off a new sermon series that we've entitled Bold in Prayer.。
So at the beginning of the year, we want to come boldly before God in prayer.。
There's four different prayers we're going to look at from Old Testament, New Testament.。
And I believe those four areas are areas where God wants to do some work in our heart at。
the beginning of the year to prepare us for what he has for us in 2025.。
So I'm really excited about that.。
Now we purposefully overlap that with the fasting season.。
And I really do want you to join us in that.。
So do have a look, do decide on what you're going to fast and what personal things you're。
going to bring before God.。
Because I believe that when we come to him in prayer, when we come to him in fasting,。
you got meets us.。
You know, he works.。
And so she would come expectantly as a church, expecting him to move us into his purposes。
and his destiny and to provide for us what we need in 2025.。
So please do join us for that.。
But now I want to share with you the word that God has impressed on my heart for us。
here at the beginning of the year, which I think will be a theme that will run through。
all of the year.。
And it started with me walking home from church.。
I was walking home from church.。
I came.。
I was just had just learned the song Holy Forever.。
I didn't know it before.。
So I'm worshiping Holy Forever found on Spotify and put it on repeat.。
And off I went on my walk back home.。
And so I came to a park and I suddenly sense God asking me to get on my knees and worship。
him.。
I was like, why?。
There's like there's like people walking here all over the place.。
Why should I get on my knees and worship you?。
What's what's it about this?。
And I didn't do it.。
So I kept walking.。
And then I even had a stronger sense that God was asking me to get on my knees and to。
worship him.。
So I got on my knees.。
People walking past me and I worship God in the street.。
Until I felt a release is like, OK, I can get up now.。
But as I was walking, the remainder of time I was walking home, I was like, what was that。
all about?。
Like, why?。
Why did I need to get on my knees and worship God in this place?。
Is there something special about this park?。
Is it something about that Jesus doesn't want us to just focus or want me to focus on just。
doing stuff inside this building?。
But he's telling me that work out in the streets.。
Like what is it?。
So I was wondering and I'm just walking home like this is kind of bizarre.。
And by the way, this is not my normal experience.。
I don't constantly have this experience where I feel God speak to me to get on my knees。
and worship him or or something like that.。
Now I also sensed that God was asking me to take a group of people there to worship and。
to pray.。
Now I have to admit, this also took me a very long time to do.。
But in December, fast forward to December, we finally went there.。
So I invited, I asked Matthias to help me organize it.。
And so I went with Matthias and some of you and we went to this park and we worshiped。
God in Cantonese and of course, with Holy Forever, since that was the song where I felt。
led to worship.。
I want to show you something.。
I want to show you a photo.。
So as we were worshiping and singing Holy Forever, suddenly we had people singing with。
us and worshiping with us.。
And it was a group that was like 50 meters or 100 meters away from us was a group of。
Filipino ladies that have their Bible study there.。
And so then we walked over like, let's do this again.。
Let's do this the right way.。
So we worship God saying Holy Forever.。
And you know, there's something there's something powerful of just like I have never met these。
ladies before.。
But right away, you know, there's a bond between believers.。
And it was so beautiful.。
And I think we all of us who went, I see some of you here, you know, we were so encouraged。
by that.。
And then we prayed.。
We prayed for them.。
They prayed for us.。
We also went on a prayer walk.。
And I, as we were leaving to go to another park to do some outreach, I there was this。
guy that I had noticed he was sitting there the whole time he's watching us.。
So I go to the I decided to Jess, Matthias wife had baked some cookies.。
So I brought him some cookies, give him some cookies.。
I wanted to give him a flyer to come to church.。
You don't want the flyer.。
So then I talked to him for like half an hour about God.。
And he's like, Where is your God?。
Show me your God.。
Introduce me to him.。
I was like, Oh, it's not that easy that you know, so just he wanted a physical introduction.。
And and so as we're talking, he's telling me that he is in charge of this park.。
So what does that mean?。
You're in charge of this park.。
It's only tells me more about what he does.。
I was like, Ooh, so it's actually quite dark.。
And it's illegal.。
And so what we kept talking about God, and I wish I could tell you that at the end, you。
know, he gave his life to Jesus right there.。
And then it hasn't happened yet.。
But I didn't leave him with a challenge.。
I said, You know, you asked me to where's your God?。
I tell you, if you pray, if you say Jesus, reveal yourself, show yourself to me, that。
Jesus will show himself to him.。
And so that's that that's what I left him with.。
Now, stepping back from all of this.。
After some some reflection, I really sensed that this experience that God took me through。
was actually something where he wanted me where he's speaking to me about something。
for all of us.。
And it's that this year God wants us to see the people around us with the eyes of Jesus.。
And 2025 he is sending us out leading us out into our neighborhoods, into our workplace,。
into our families.。
And he's going to highlight people to us that he wants us to care for, that he wants us。
to love and serve, and that he wants us to share the gospel message with.。
But the question is, how do we get started?。
You know, we're here at the beginning of the year.。
What do we do?。
How how can we be filled with the compassion of Jesus and moved to care for those around。
us and share the gospel message with those around us?。
You know, how can we make ourselves available to that and get actually going and not just。
talk about it?。
So that's what I want to explore with you today through this message.。
We're going to go to the gospel of Matthew, to chapter nine.。
The disciples, they've been, to give you a little bit of context, they've been watching。
Jesus teach, they've been observing him ministering to people, healing the sick, driving out demons,。
proclaiming the kingdom.。
And then at the end of chapter nine, the part we're going to look at, there's a transition。
that takes place that I believe is significant for us because I believe this is a transition。
that this year in God's timing, he wants to lead us through.。
And so let me read this passage to you.。
Matthew nine, starting verse 35, it says this.。
Jesus went through all the towns and villages, teaching in their synagogues, proclaiming。
the good news of the kingdom and healing every disease and sickness.。
When he saw the crowds, he had compassion on them because they were harassed and helpless。
like sheep without a shepherd.。
Then he said to his disciples, the harvest is plentiful, but the workers are few.。
Ask the Lord of the harvest to send out his workers, therefore into the harvest field.。
Then Jesus called his 12 disciples to him and he gave them authority to drive out impure。
spirits and to heal every disease and sickness.。
And then these are the names of the 12 apostles.。
First Simon, who was called Peter, and his brother Andrew, James, son of Zebedee, and。
his brother John, Philip, Bartholomew.。
That one I always have to look up how to say that one.。
Thomas and Matthew, the tax collector, James, son of Aphaius, and Thaddeus, Simon the zealot,。
and Judas Iscariot, who betrayed him.。
And these 12 Jesus sent out.。
So there's two things right up front that I think are significant for us as we want。
to open our lives to be filled, to be let out in the compassion of Jesus to those around。
us.。
And that is that Jesus wants to give us eyes to see others with his eyes, with the eyes。
of Jesus.。
And to give us the heart of Jesus for those around us.。
So let me look at verse 36 with you.。
It says this, "When he," so Jesus, "saw the crowd, he had compassion on them, because。
they were harassed, they were helpless, like sheep without a shepherd."。
And Jesus, he uses a metaphor that was quite well known to his contemporaries.。
It was one that you find throughout the Bible of sheep and shepherd Israel.。
The people are the sheep, the shepherds are the leaders.。
And I want to take you to the key, one key passage that I believe is a background to。
what Jesus is observing here.。
And that's in Ezekiel, the prophet Ezekiel.。
He's been given a word that he then declares to Israel and to the leadership.。
And so let me take you to Ezekiel 34.。
We're starting in verse two.。
It says this, "Woe to you, shepherds of Israel, who only take care of yourselves.。
Should not shepherds take care of the flock?。
You eat the curds, close yourself with the wool, and slaughter the choice animals.。
But you do not take care of the flock.。
You have not strengthened the weak or healed the sick or bound up the injured.。
You have not brought back the strays or searched for the lost.。
You have ruled over them harshly and brutally.。
So they were scattered because there was no shepherd.。
And when they were scattered, they became food for all the wild animals.。
My sheep wandered all over the mountains and every high hill.。
They scattered them over the whole earth, and no one searched or looked for them."。
Wow.。
You know, those are quite some strong words, but they really reveal the heart of God for。
us.。
You know, "You have not strengthened the weak or healed the sick or bound up the injured."。
You know, as a church, we're actually meant to pastor people.。
It's not just a pastor who pastors people.。
We're meant to pastor and shepherd people around us.。
It's actually the job of the church.。
The pastor, the wounded, the hurting, the sick, the lost.。
And Jesus is saying, when he observed the crowds, when he has gone through all the towns,。
that this is happening again.。
That people are harassed, they are helpless, they lack leadership, they're vulnerable,。
there is pain, there is suffering, there is lostness.。
And that's what Jesus sees when he looks on the crowd.。
And I believe one thing that's significant for us is that there's also a spiritual seeing.。
It's not just seeing physically what's happening.。
Now, of course, that's also part of it, and that is also important.。
But Jesus also sees the spiritual condition that people are in.。
And he wants us to be people who see with those same eyes those around us.。
He wants to open our eyes this year, to awaken, to not just be...。
I've walked that stretch in Yulong a million times, not a million times, a lot of times,。
be accurate.。
But I never noticed the people in the park.。
And he wants to highlight people to us who are suffering, who are in pain, who are struggling,。
who are lost.。
That really is a start for the work that God wants to do in our hearts.。
He wants to give us eyes to see.。
That's the beginning point.。
Now, but we need to be open for that.。
So then also in verse 36, Jesus, we're told that he had compassion on them.。
It's that seeing that then moves to compassion.。
And having compassion is different than having pity.。
Pity is like, "Oh, I'm sorry for you," and you walk on.。
But having compassion means that you do not let you pass by what's going on.。
It means entering the suffering and the pain and the struggles of those around us.。
And it means getting involved and doing something about it.。
That's what compassion is.。
And Jesus allows himself to be filled with compassion.。
He doesn't let the struggles and the pain and the suffering of the people just pass。
him by.。
But he allows himself to be impacted by those who are hurting, those who are lost.。
So Jesus gets involved, and that's what you've been reading in the Gospel of Matthew in chapter,。
especially eight and nine, right before this.。
Jesus gets involved with people's physical pain, so he heals people.。
Jesus gets involved with people's emotional pain.。
He takes away shame and just brings healing to that and restores people and gives them。
dignity where dignity has been lost.。
Jesus gets involved with our spiritual lostness, restores lost sheep back to the sheepfold,。
meaning he brings lost people back to a relationship with the Father and restores them.。
And I love in the Gospel of John, Jesus says, "I am the good shepherd, and the good shepherd。
lays down his life for the sheep."。
Now, I don't know a deeper way of getting involved than laying down your life, self-giving。
love so that people can be restored back to the Father.。
He wants us, his people, to be people who practice the same self-giving love, who are。
filled with compassion, with the heart of God, moved by love, to not step away from。
people's pain and problems, which a lot of times you don't want to get involved, let's。
be honest.。
It's like, "Oh, there's pain, let me go a different direction.。
I don't want to deal with whatever this person's going through.。
I don't want to get involved."。
And I'm not saying that we are meant to be involved in everyone, every single person's。
pain, but it will be people's pain and people who are struggling that Jesus wants you to。
be involved in.。
And so the question is, are we available for that?。
Are we willing to go there?。
So Jesus, he does not stay away from our problems and pain, but he draws near to us, and he。
wants us to be people who draw near to others.。
And I think this is important for some of us here this morning as well, because actually。
some of us are struggling.。
Some of us are in pain.。
Some of us are hurting.。
And you need to know today that Jesus sees you, that he's filled with compassion for。
what is going on, that he's not running away from you like maybe other people in your life。
have been doing, but that he is drawing near to you, that he has the power to help you,。
to meet you, to provide you, to get you through.。
And I believe that some of us need to hear this here this morning that are struggling。
and that are hurting.。
And he wants us also to come around those who are hurting and struggling here.。
But Jesus also has compassion for the guy in the park who's doing things that are destroying。
people's lives.。
He's not contributing to flourishing of life, but Jesus has compassion for that person as。
well because he sees his spiritual lostness.。
And he wants that person to also be restored back to the Father for his life to be turned。
around, that instead of bringing people down and destroying people's lives, that this person。
becomes a person who builds people up, who contributes to the good, and who finds life。
in Jesus, forgiveness, and healing, and restoration.。
And I just wonder, are we church who wants people like that to come into our service?。
I think that's a real question.。
But the heart of the Father longs for the lost sheep, for those who are hurting, those。
who are in pain, to be restored, and he wants us as people to be filled with compassion,。
to move out, and to express his love, his care, share his good news with those around。
us.。
So who do you see being harassed and helpless?。
Who is the Spirit of God stirring compassion for in your heart?。
Who does Jesus want you to see and be filled with compassion for in 2025?。
Now I notice this is quite heavy, right, because there is a lot of needs.。
There's a lot of pain.。
There are a lot of people that are lost.。
There's a lot of people that are hurting.。
And it's really overwhelming.。
But I love that Jesus tells us right away what to do about that.。
And that we see in verse 37 through 38, so let's look at that.。
Jesus says there, "And then he said to his disciples, 'The harvest is plentiful, but。
the workers are few.。
Ask the Lord of the harvest, therefore, to send out his workers into the harvest field.'"。
Now I love this.。
Jesus acknowledges this, yes, the harvest is plentiful.。
There are people with needs who are ready to step into the kingdom, but there's a problem。
that the workers are few.。
But in the face of these overwhelming challenges and this lack of resources and lack of workers,。
come and pray to the Lord of the harvest, who has the ability to send out workers into。
his harvest field.。
And it's prayer that propels us forward in responding in a powerful way to the needs。
that we see around us.。
It's the move of the Holy Spirit.。
Now as a pastor, honestly, my heart is like, I wish I could force us all to go and do this.。
I can't.。
And it wouldn't be good.。
It would actually be bad if I tried to do this.。
But it's the Spirit of God moving and stirring in our hearts, moving us into compassion,。
giving us eyes to see that sends us out into your workplaces, into your neighborhoods,。
into your families to care, to bring his love to bear and to share the gospel message.。
Now what I find very significant is that besides the Lord's prayer, this is actually the only。
time where Jesus tells us specifically what to pray for.。
I think this is super significant, that he really is giving his church a word on how。
to pray.。
And he's saying, don't get overwhelmed with the big harvest.。
Don't get overwhelmed with all the needs.。
Don't get overwhelmed with pastoring the people around you that God has put around you and。
has highlighted to you.。
Don't get overwhelmed by that.。
Remember who the Lord of the harvest is.。
He's the living God.。
He's the God of all resources, all power, all authority.。
And he will provide for his people what we need to do the work he's inviting us into.。
So don't get overwhelmed.。
And he has gone before, he's already at work in the harvest field.。
He's already out there in the streets and in the city and in your family and in your。
neighbor.。
He's already working.。
He's already drawing people to himself.。
But he's waiting for us, his church, to go.。
So when we get overwhelmed with these needs, and they are huge, we need to start with prayer.。
We start with prayer.。
And Jesus works through prayer.。
He will provide through prayer.。
He will do a work in our hearts through prayer.。
And when his church prays, we are sent out into the city.。
But it's not just us.。
God will also raise up other workers.。
It's not just that we pray and then he sends us out of the church.。
When we pray for workers to be sent out of the harvest, he will raise up other workers。
that we don't even know about.。
We have visions, we have dreams, we have plans to do kingdom work.。
But he mobilizes people through prayer.。
So we are called to pray.。
Now what I also find fascinating is that the Greek word that Jesus uses when he tells us。
to pray to send out workers, the word send out, ekballo, it's actually a very strong。
word.。
And here are some of the meanings for it.。
Send out, cast out, flung out, drive out, thrust out.。
It's actually the same word that is used for driving out a demon in scripture.。
Thrust out.。
Now why is that?。
Why is Jesus asking us to pray in such strong language?。
Well here's what I believe.。
I believe that Jesus is asking us to pray that workers are thrust out because we are。
comfortable in our routines and we're living in our comfort zones.。
And we need the spirit of God, the light of fire for us to actually go out.。
To be thrust out, we need a kick in the rear end.。
And it happens through prayer, through Holy Spirit moving.。
And what's also fascinating with this, this whole part just fascinates me, is that you。
and I, we are Jesus' prayer requests.。
But what do I mean by that?。
Well Jesus does not ask us to pray in this instance for those who are hurting, who are。
out in the street.。
But he actually asks us to pray for the church.。
He asks us to pray for workers to be sent out.。
Have you ever thought about that?。
Like we're Jesus' prayer requests.。
We need prayer.。
Because we need to be thrust out into the harvest field.。
So we're the ones who are stuck in the comfort zone.。
We're the ones who know the gospel.。
We're the ones who know that Jesus changes lives.。
But we need the Spirit of God to move us out into the city, into the workplaces, into the。
neighborhoods to share the love of Jesus with those around us.。
Now I know that some of you are sitting here, yeah, but it's not me.。
You know, you're talking about these other Christians that like know the Bible and stuff。
really well.。
You're talking about those who have their life in order, who are living very holy and。
pleasing to God lives.。
You're talking about the NGO workers or the missionaries or the pastors that do this stuff.。
Jesus when he says pray for workers, the word workers in Greek ergates, it means day laborer.。
It's not somebody with special skills.。
It's not somebody with a PhD in biblical languages.。
It's just, it's just a, it's a day laborer.。
So the tasks that we're sent out to do, it doesn't require any special skills.。
We all can do the job.。
You all can do the job.。
We all know how to listen to people.。
We all know how to give people a hug.。
We all know how to invite somebody over for coffee or tea or whatever it is that you drink.。
We all know how to practically help people with the resources that God has given us.。
And we all know how to share about Jesus and the work that he's done in our lives.。
Now we might not say that in the most beautiful way, but you know how to talk about Jesus。
and the work he's done in your life.。
So the most important part is actually willingness and available.。
Are we willing to go out and to be used by God?。
Are we available to God?。
Now a lot of times we focus on the things we don't have.。
I don't have my perfect life left.。
I don't know the Bible perfectly.。
I don't have this, I don't have that.。
But we need to focus on what we have.。
You know, we know how to love.。
We know Jesus.。
We have a testimony and we're sent out by the Holy Spirit to do this work.。
And when God sends us, we can do it.。
And guess what?。
Actually a lot of times you learn on the job.。
You learn by going.。
So we need to go.。
We're invited to go.。
Now I want to invite the worship team to come up.。
Now in chapter 10, so moving on in the text, supposedly the disciples, they prayed this。
prayer for God to send out workers.。
And then they are the answer to this prayer because Jesus then sends them out to the lost。
sheep of Israel at this time and to do his work, his healing and restoring work.。
That's interesting there too because there's a transition that takes place in the disciples.。
So first they're referred to as disciples and then suddenly they're referred to as apostles.。
Now apostle, the Greek word literally means sent out messenger.。
Suddenly they become the sent out ones who are sent out into the harvest field that is。
ripe.。
And so they went from bystanders and people observed Jesus, which was okay because that's。
what they needed to do at the beginning, to being participants and it was redeeming work。
and healing work.。
And I believe that God this year is calling us into this transition of going deeper into。
being participants in his work, in this neighborhood, in the city, in your family, in your workplace,。
where he wants to use you to share the gospel message, to bring God's love, to bear in practical。
ways to the people around you.。
But the question is, are we available?。
And do we care to see lives restored to Jesus?。
Do we care to see this guy restored in the park to Jesus?。
Do we care to see the coworker restored to Jesus?。
Do we care to see the mom who's maybe overwhelmed with all that's on her plate to restore it。
to Jesus and experience his love and his care from his people, from God's people?。
Now as I was thinking about this word and I was picturing and imagining the end of 2020。
to 2025, you know, what do I see?。
What if we all would make ourselves available?。
What if we all pray this prayer and ask Jesus to send us out, to thrust us out into his。
vineyard?。
What if we actually start doing this work and respond when God highlights somebody,。
we start caring for them and serving them and sharing the good news with them.。
And I really believe that if we make ourselves available, that God will do immeasurably more。
than we can ask or imagine.。
That at the end of 2025, we'll have many people in this room, we have been touched by the。
love of Jesus.。
When we communicated about the church plan, one of the things that we said right from。
the beginning is that it is our heart's desire that it is a regular occurrence that people。
are coming to know Jesus.。
I want to see that happening.。
That's my desire.。
I desire that.。
I long for that.。
I want to see people who are hopeless, who are hurting, you know, find hope, find healing.。
So the question is, you know, are we going to pray this prayer to ask the Lord of the。
harvest to send out his workers into the harvest field?。
And then are we, and when he sends us, are we going to be willing to go and do this work?。
Now I actually want us to start off with, with, with praying this prayer.。
So start off this year with praying this prayer that we actually pray what Jesus asked us。
to pray.。
So I want to invite you to turn to somebody around you to ask them, is it okay if I pray。
with you?。
Maybe somebody, you know, maybe some of you just met, maybe some of you never met, but。
now you're going to talk to them and you just ask them, Hey, can we pray together for this,。
for Jesus to send out workers into the harvest field?。
And then while you're at it, I also want to encourage you if you're, if you want to do。
this, just say, Jesus, this is my heart's desire.。
I long for this.。
I'm available.。
Just express that.。
So we're going to take a few minutes to do that and then I'll pray for us.。
So let's turn to each other right now.。
Let's pray for each other, pray, pray with each other, and then I'll bring us back.。
So let's do this church.。
[MUSIC]。
