Hello, friends and sisters. I am Hsu. Welcome to our 10-part lecture.。
Today's topic is "Who is my mentor?"。
"Three-level understanding"。
The content is in the 10th chapter of the Old Testament, 25-37, the parable of Osama bin Laden.。
The scripture is in the Old Testament. Let me read it.。
A lawmaker came up to Jesus and said, "Teacher, what should I do to be eternal?"。
Jesus said to him, "What is written in the law? How do you read it?"。
He replied, "You must do your best to love your God and love the Lord as yourself."。
Jesus said, "You are right. Your actions are life."。
The man wanted to prove himself right, so he said to Jesus, "Who is my mentor?"。
Jesus replied, "There was a man who came down from Jerusalem and fell into the hands of the robbers.。
They took off his clothes and beat him to death.。
He was taken away by a man.。
A priest saw him coming down from the road and walked by him.。
A man from Nimeh saw him and walked by him.。
A man from Samaria saw him and fell in love with him.。
He poured wine on his wounds and wrapped them up.。
He carried him on his back and took him to the inn to take care of him.。
The next day he took two silver coins and handed them to the innkeeper and said,。
"Please take care of him. I will return the money I have taken when I return."。
"Who is the man who fell into the hands of the robbers?"。
He said, "It is the man who is in his name."。
Jesus said, "You go and do as you have done."。
I will divide this passage into two parts.。
The latter part is the conversation from 25 to 29.。
After the conversation, Jesus will talk about the prophecy from 30 to 37.。
Today I will first introduce some background information.。
For example, some people, some cultures, and some interpretations of the Bible at the time.。
Then I will first look at this passage in the first level.。
Then I will point out the place where the passage is found.。
Then I will look at this passage twice in the third and fourth parts.。
I will look at these two passages in different depths.。
Before concluding, I will try to explain what it means to "endure forever"。
and how to follow God's command and obey God's law.。
The background of this story is from a geographical perspective.。
From the city of Jerusalem to Jericho.。
The city of Jerusalem is located at an altitude of 2,400 meters above the mountain.。
Jericho is 720 meters below the waterline.。
So the difference in altitude is 3,170 meters.。
What does this height mean?。
If you have lived in Hong Kong, you know that the highest mountain in Hong Kong is called the Great Wall Mountain.。
The height of the Great Wall Mountain is 3,140 meters.。
So it is equivalent to 17 miles from the Great Wall Mountain to the waterline.。
This is the background of the geography.。
The picture next to it shows that many of the mountains are sloping.。
It is quite dangerous.。
It is difficult to detect if there is a force hiding behind it.。
This is the metaphor used by Jesus Christ in this background.。
There are a few things I want to clarify.。
First, the word "God who is full of heart, full of mind, full of strength, full of love, and full of love for you"。
and "love the Lord and love yourself"。
are related to love in the Hellenistic text.。
But today we want to talk about "love God" and "love the Lord"。
in the Hellenistic text.。
The word "Akabe" refers to God's love for people.。
This is the most important love.。
It is a love without selfishness and conditions.。
That is to say, the love we are talking about today,。
the love of God, the love of the Holy Spirit,。
is to meet the moral range of God's love for the Holy Spirit.。
It is just a love without selfishness.。
It is not about love between family members.。
There is another word for love between family members,。
love between men and women, and love between friends.。
The love we are talking about today is the love between God and people.。
It is like God's love for people in the Christian world.。
If we use the Interlinear Bible on the Internet,。
we will see the words of the Hellenistic text.。
If you click into each word of the Hellenistic text,。
there is an English translation.。
The word "heart" refers to thoughts or feelings,。
the heart of a person, the heart of your thoughts.。
The word "soul" refers to the word "soul"。
in the Old Testament when Adam was created,。
God breathed into Adam, and Adam had the spirit of life.。
So the Holy Spirit, which is all your life,。
came to love God together.。
The word "power" is easier to understand,。
which means to use all your ability,。
your method to love God.。
The word "soul" refers to a deep level of thought,。
which means you need a will.。
In addition to emotional thought,。
we also need a will.。
This is very important.。
When we finally explain the love of the Holy Spirit,。
I will go back to why these four things are together.。
This wholeheartedly, wholeheartedly, wholeheartedly,。
wholeheartedly love God and love the Holy Spirit and yourself,。
this sentence is not in the Old Testament.。
Because this sentence is actually composed of two Old Testament verses.。
The first part of "Love God" is mentioned in the sixth chapter of the Bible.。
In the 49th chapter of the Leviticus,。
there is a second part of "Love God, Love Your Spirit, Love Yourself."。
I want everyone to pay attention to the three words "wholeheartedly, wholeheartedly, wholeheartedly"。
in the Old Testament.。
Some books of the Gospels explain this.。
Because in the Hebrew text,。
the first word "wholeheartedly" includes the meaning of "wholeheartedly."。
So in the Old Testament, it means "wholeheartedly, wholeheartedly, wholeheartedly."。
In the Bible, it means "wholeheartedly, wholeheartedly, wholeheartedly, wholeheartedly love God."。
Because it is clearly defined in the Hebrew text.。
These two greatest revolutions were not mentioned for the first time.。
In Matthew 12 and 22,。
there were two prophets or lawmakers。
who debated or tested the knowledge of the Bible.。
At that time, these two prophets or lawmakers。
asked the same question,。
which one is the most important among the revolutions?。
Jesus answered, "Wholeheartedly, wholeheartedly, wholeheartedly love God, your God, and love yourself."。
This time, the lawmaker's question was different from the one asked by Jesus before the prophecy.。
He asked, "Teacher, what should I do?"。
What can I do to be eternal?。
It is not about which one is the most important.。
The lawmaker had prepared his answer.。
So when Jesus asked him how to write the law,。
he immediately came up with the answer.。
He asked himself and answered himself.。
The motivation of this conversation, if we look at the Bible,。
the lawmaker tested Jesus.。
This test may not necessarily mean to make him suffer.。
Because we saw two examples before.。
Some scholars really think that Jesus came out to explain the Bible like a scholar.。
Many people followed him.。
He said something more authoritative.。
They wanted to debate with him to see if he was telling the truth or not.。
I think it's a test in this form to see how much he could weigh.。
It's a way of debating with him.。
So when he talked to Jesus, he also called Jesus as a teacher.。
After answering Jesus,。
he debated with him to prove that he was right.。
But if we look at the structure of the whole debate, it is very special.。
At the beginning, the lawmaker challenged Jesus like a teacher.。
Jesus answered the same way.。
Let's look at the first paragraph.。
The lawmaker asked what he could do to be eternal.。
Notice that Jesus did not answer this question.。
Jesus used a question-and-answer method to ask how to write the law.。
How to understand.。
How to read.。
How to understand.。
Why did Jesus ask two questions?。
Because you know how to write the law.。
If your understanding is wrong, it is wrong.。
So he asked two questions.。
The lawmaker answered.。
He already had an answer.。
He answered with all his heart, all his strength, etc.。
I am God and I am written for myself.。
Jesus made a conclusion.。
You are right.。
This is how to live.。
This is the first dialogue.。
The second dialogue has the same structure.。
The lawmaker asked again who is my successor?。
Jesus did not answer.。
Jesus asked again who is the successor of this victim?。
This led the lawmaker to answer.。
It is the question-and-answer method.。
Jesus made a conclusion.。
You are right.。
So at first, Jesus was like a debate.。
The lawmaker was like a judge.。
Jesus made a very ingenious dialogue.。
He became the main speaker.。
The lawmaker became the answerer.。
I have four dialogues with four people.。
I want to compare them with you.。
Because these four passages are related to our explanation today.。
We noticed that Jesus talked to different people.。
There are different ways to discuss the truth.。
Sometimes it is very similar.。
But there are also different ways.。
For example, he and Nebuchadnezzar。
were recording in the Book of Revelation.。
When talking about resurrection,。
Nebuchadnezzar could not figure out how to。
resurrect the story in his mother's womb.。
Jesus directly explained to him。
"If man is not born again from water and the Holy Spirit,。
he cannot enter the kingdom of God."。
He said that only those who are resurrected by the Holy Spirit。
can enter heaven.。
He directly explained the truth.。
For Nebuchadnezzar,。
there was a dialogue.。
Nebuchadnezzar's question was the same as the lawmaker's.。
What should I do to be resurrected?。
Jesus directly explained his biggest question.。
You have to change everything to follow me.。
Because Jesus saw people's hearts.。
He knew this was his biggest problem.。
What you can't do is your problem.。
In the Book of Revelation,。
there is a story about a man from Palestine,。
Simon, who invited Jesus to his house.。
But he did not treat Jesus politely.。
He did not wash his feet with him.。
He respected Jesus as a guest.。
But at that time, a woman who was drunk。
went to Jesus and washed his feet with tears.。
She used her hair to wipe his feet.。
Jesus asked Simon a question.。
If a creditor has two creditors,。
one owes 500 and the other 50,。
and the creditor also exempts the two people from debt,。
which creditor will be more grateful to the creditor?。
Will he love more?。
Simon's answer was that。
the one who has more credit will love the creditor more.。
This story is related to today's story.。
I will tell you again when I meet you.。
Today we will talk about the Lawyer.。
After two conversations with Jesus Christ,。
he told the truth.。
This is the Lawyer, the one who taught others.。
We will now look at the content of these scriptures.。
There are different types of people mentioned here.。
What kind of people are the Lawyer and the Priest?。
At that time, the Jews were ruled by the Romans.。
So politically they were powerless.。
Militarily they were powerless.。
But among the people,。
they had a court.。
The Lawyer was appointed by the Roman Empire.。
They established a religious court。
to govern the internal affairs of the Jews,。
especially religious affairs.。
Among them, the Lawyer and the Priest。
were the most important people in the power center.。
The Lawyer and the Priest could only be。
the descendants of Aaron.。
Aaron was the brother of Moses。
when he went to Egypt.。
So he could only be the descendant of Aaron.。
Aaron was also a Lawyer.。
If you are a Lawyer,。
but not from Aaron's family,。
you are responsible for other religious affairs.。
These are the assistants.。
These are the assistants of the Lawyer.。
They were all responsible for the work in the temple.。
It is recorded that。
there were about 18,000 Lawyers in the time of Jesus.。
They served in the temple in turns.。
Father John was one of the Lawyers.。
Among the Lawyers,。
there were 22 people from the Lawyers and the Priest.。
So they were another power center.。
They were familiar with the Bible。
and strictly followed the rules of the Bible.。
But at that time, Jesus criticized them。
and said that their hearts were far from God.。
They said that they were reverent and devoted to God,。
but their hearts were far from God.。
They did not respect God.。
At the same time,。
their concept of enemies。
was wrong according to Jesus' teaching.。
Because Jesus told them。
that they should listen to the commandment。
"Love your neighbor as you hate your enemy."。
But Jesus taught them。
that they should love their enemies.。
The persecuted should pray.。
The persecuted should pray.。
It means that when you love your neighbor,。
your neighbor includes your enemy.。
It doesn't mean you should hate your enemy.。
Why did they have a wrong concept?。
Because if they look back at the Old Testament,。
it mentioned what a neighbor was.。
The Bible says that。
the neighbor is your people.。
Don't love your neighbor in any way.。
Your neighbor is your people.。
And in the 34th chapter of the Old Testament,。
the neighbor is your people.。
It means that the people who are your people。
should love them as they love themselves.。
This is the concept of their neighbor at that time.。
My people, Jews,。
or the people who are our people.。
But when it comes to Jesus,。
they narrowed the scope even more.。
Why?。
Because these people who obey the law。
look down on other Jews,。
such as tax collectors and criminals.。
Although they are all Jews,。
they are all from the same tribe,。
they think their behavior is not correct.。
They may be greedy,。
cheat, defraud, or commit crimes.。
They are greedy.。
Although they are Jews,。
they do not regard them as their neighbors.。
They only regard those they love。
as their neighbors.。
For the foreigners,。
they must be regarded as their enemies.。
So after the fall of the Roman Empire,。
Solomon became king.。
After Solomon's death,。
the country was divided into two parts.。
Of the twelve branches,。
two branches formed the South,。
that is, the Jewish state.。
Ten branches on the north side are the Israeli state.。
The southernmost branch is Jerusalem,。
and the northernmost branch is Samaria.。
Samaria could not go to Jerusalem to worship,。
so it was buried in the city of Sidon.。
When the Assyrian Empire destroyed the Israeli state,。
they moved the Israelis to different places.。
Many foreigners moved to this place.。
The remaining Israelis married the foreigners.。
When they were married,。
they were no longer pure Israelis.。
So the Jews on the south side。
did not like them.。
They thought they were a group of。
non-pure Israelis.。
At the same time,。
they worshiped other than the Bible,。
they did not believe in other scriptures.。
They did not believe in religion,。
and they also worshiped other idols.。
After the two countries were divided,。
the Israeli state once helped foreigners。
to try to attack the Jewish state.。
So the Jews on the south side hate the people on the north side.。
When the Jews could return to build the temple,。
the Samaritans once stopped them from building the temple.。
They wanted to participate.。
In the age of Jesus,。
these two regions were a joint province.。
It was ruled by the Romans.。
But the Jews on the south side。
did not want to associate with the Samaritans on the north side.。
So when they wanted to go to Galilee,。
they often walked along the right side of the Jordan River,。
instead of passing through the Samaritan area.。
Because they did not like the Samaritans.。
Why did they not like them?。
When the Jews wanted to slander Jesus,。
they insulted Jesus.。
They said to Jesus,。
"We say that you are a Samaritan and a Christian."。
They added the worst of the two things to Jesus.。
This is how the Jews slandered Jesus at that time.。
So you can see that the Jews at that time。
were as bad as the Samaritans.。
At the same time,。
there is a record in the Old Testament.。
Jesus went to Jerusalem.。
At the end of the journey,。
he passed through a village in Samaria.。
The people there did not receive Jesus.。
Because they saw Jesus going to Jerusalem.。
So the people who went there were not our own people.。
At that time,。
when the Jews saw that they did not greet Jesus,。
they asked Jesus,。
"Lord, can you tell us。
to burn these Samaritans in the sky。
to kill these people who do not receive us?"。
So you can see that the hatred was very strong.。
Jesus turned to burn these two doors.。
So we see that the Jews and the Samaritans。
are opposing each other.。
Let's look at the first level.。
Let's look at the first story.。
At the beginning,。
they had a conversation.。
The pastor,。
according to the background we just saw,。
wanted to debate with Jesus to challenge him。
to see how much Jesus knew about the Bible.。
He asked, "What can I do to be eternal?"。
This question is very important.。
Why?。
The pastor did not ask,。
"What can I do to be a prophet?"。
He saw that the most important thing was eternal life.。
So he asked this very important question to them.。
Since you are a pastor,。
how do you write the law?。
How do you understand?。
He answered,。
"This is the famous truth,。
to love God and to love the Lord and yourself."。
Jesus said, "You are right.。
If you do this, you will have life."。
This man was not enough.。
He wanted to prove himself right.。
He told Jesus,。
"Who is my Lord?"。
Jesus began to talk about the Samaritan's parable.。
There are different characters in this parable.。
The first character is a man who went from Jerusalem to Jericho.。
I just showed you the picture.。
He went from a very high place to the mountain.。
He met a group of robbers.。
These robbers took off his clothes,。
beat him to death,。
and the other man left.。
These sentences are meaningful.。
First, they took off his clothes.。
At that time, clothes were expensive.。
It was not like today,。
where you can buy clothes at any time.。
We can produce a lot of clothes at a low price.。
But at that time, we had to work slowly.。
There was no automated machine.。
So clothes were expensive.。
So you can see that。
when Jesus was nailed to the cross,。
the soldiers took Jesus' clothes.。
They took away a prisoner's clothes.。
Because clothes are important when it is cold.。
Clothes are not only valuable,。
but also can express your identity.。
No matter what class you are,。
your clothes can reveal who you are.。
For example,。
if this man's clothes are a picture of a priest,。
the priest and the Libyan may help him.。
But this man's clothes were all taken off。
and beaten to death.。
So we look at these two people in the 31st chapter.。
This priest is a leader of our church in modern times.。
He is a pastor and a religious leader.。
He should be a law-abiding person.。
But he saw this man like this,。
so he walked by and didn't help him.。
Then this Libyan,。
in modern terms,。
is a person who participates in the church.。
Many people, including our pastor,。
the chairman, the pastor,。
and the pastor of the church,。
are all like this.。
When they see this man,。
they all want to walk by.。
It's strange.。
Why do these people who are passionate about religion。
and actively participate in religious activities。
ignore him?。
There are different ways to spread the word.。
Mainly, they give a possibility.。
This possibility is a common point.。
They calculate their own safety and interests.。
Why calculate?。
Because if they stayed at that time,。
if there was still violence,。
they might be attacked.。
They are not safe.。
And if this person was beaten to death,。
and his whole body was bleeding,。
if he was electrocuted,。
he would not be vaccinated.。
Because they are responsible for serving the church.。
If he was not vaccinated,。
he would have to be vaccinated for seven days.。
He could not go to work for seven days.。
So it would affect their work.。
At the same time, this person was beaten to death.。
Even if he was saved, he might not be able to save him.。
So he might not have time.。
They might not bother him.。
They just walked away.。
This is actually a very important message.。
No matter how a group of people actively participate in religion,。
no matter their status, no matter their time,。
if we do not have a united heart,。
it is a big problem.。
So Jesus is a rebel.。
Although these people have religious rituals,。
but their hearts are not there.。
But on the contrary, in chapter 32,。
in chapter 33, there is a person who is the most annoying,。
the most unbearable enemy of the Pharisees,。
the Sanhedrin.。
This person came and saw this injured person,。
and he was moved.。
First, in chapter 34, he used wine and oil to treat the wound.。
He bandaged the wound.。
The first thing he did was to immediately cure the person。
with the wine and oil.。
Then he carried the person to his own body。
to arrange a guesthouse to take care of him.。
That is, he immediately needed to be cured。
and then prepared for long-term care.。
He didn't just leave right away.。
He stayed the next day.。
Then he took two coins here.。
According to the Bible,。
one coin was the salary of the day.。
Two coins were enough to stay in this shop for about two weeks.。
He handed it over to the shopkeeper.。
In other words, in addition to being cured and helped by the injured person,。
he also prepared for long-term care.。
He asked the shopkeeper to take care of him.。
The extra expenses.。
The Samaritan did not write on the top of the page。
how much extra expenses were required.。
He did not mention the top.。
When I came back, I had to pay you back.。
He said he would come back and pay you back.。
Then he asked the lawyer。
who was the victim of the three people,。
the priest, the Samaritan and the Samaritan?。
The lawyer said,。
"He did not mention the Samaritan."。
Maybe he didn't want to see this word。
because he didn't like this word, didn't like these people.。
But he answered the answer,。
"The Samaritan is the one who died."。
Then Jesus said, "You go and do as you did."。
This is the first time we have seen the content of the story.。
We can see some information clearly.。
Some people are not enough to see death.。
Some people we think are enemies.。
Instead, he is willing to be loving and active。
to help those in need.。
He will immediately treat them,。
arrange long-term care,。
and even prepare extra expenses.。
Then he will come back and see this person.。
Let's look at this story and ask a few questions.。
When the lawyer asked, "Who is my adversary?"。
Who is this "I"?。
The lawyer thought he was the priest.。
Who needs to be saved?。
In this story, the person from Jerusalem to Jericho。
may be a Jew.。
But this person needs to be saved.。
The group of people who hurt others are the "strong ones".。
The people who need to be cared for are religious people,。
priests and laymen.。
Although they have religious appearance,。
they are not "the law of God" but "the law of the Lord".。
Who is the "law of God"?。
This is the Samaritan with a "heart of words".。
He uses his heart to lead people to act.。
He is the "Lunar Stone" because he is the one who writes the covenant.。
He will immediately save and help in the long run.。
So if we look at the last sentence,。
"You go to the Lord to act".。
When we first read this story,。
we may come to a conclusion that。
you go to the Samaritan with a "heart of words"。
to write the covenant.。
You go to the Samaritan with a "heart of words"。
to write the covenant.。
So some priests use the name of the Samaritan。
to change the name.。
This is the first level of our understanding.。
But in this level of understanding,。
we will encounter several problems.。
What are the problems?。
First, let's look at this passage again.。
The priest asked Jesus,。
"What can I do to be eternal?"。
Jesus replied,。
"You go to the Lord to act."。
Why not "to follow the will of God"?。
This is the first question we need to answer.。
Then Jesus Christ said,。
"You go to the Lord to act."。
What do these three "act" mean?。
Why not "to follow the will of God"?。
The second question,。
if we don't pay attention, we have to be careful.。
I haven't paid attention to this question for many years.。
The key is that when the priest asked,。
"Who is my disciple?"。
I am him.。
He thinks he is a disciple.。
And the disciple is the recipient.。
But after hearing Jesus' words and guidance,。
he said the answer.。
The disciple is the one who is the disciple.。
It's just the opposite.。
At first, he was the disciple,。
and the disciple was the recipient.。
Now his answer is,。
"Who is the disciple?"。
The disciple is the one who is the recipient.。
Originally, the disciple is the recipient,。
now he is the recipient.。
His whole cognition is completely reversed.。
Why is that?。
So if we stay in the first level of understanding,。
we can't see these contradictions.。
Not contradictions, but these characteristics.。
Why are they so strange?。
Then we have to look at the second level of understanding.。
Now I will try to divide the first part into 6 parts.。
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6.。
I will explain the meaning of these 6 sentences one by one.。
First, the priest asked Jesus Christ,。
"Teacher, what should I do to be saved?"。
He asked a very important question.。
Not fame and wealth,。
not how to be rich and powerful,。
but how to have an eternal life.。
He saw that this was the most important thing.。
He asked, "What can I do to bear this?"。
If we look at the Old Testament,。
it is mentioned that the dead will wake up,。
and the dead will be resurrected.。
After resurrection, there are two results.。
Some are eternal,。
some are always humiliated and despised.。
There are two results.。
He asked, "After I die and resurrect,。
how can I have an eternal life?"。
He said this was a very important question for him.。
But he said, "What should I do?"。
So the question is in the question itself.。
What should I do?。
Why is this a question in the question itself?。
If you ask the richest person in the city you live in,。
if you go to him and knock on his door and ask him,。
"What can I do to bear your property?"。
This rich person will kick you out.。
Because to bear property is not to do anything for others,。
but to be a person,。
not a descendant of a rich person。
or his designated successor.。
It's a question of identity, not an issue of behavior.。
So if we ask how to bear eternal life,。
how to enter heaven,。
the only answer is that our identity must become God's will.。
It's not what I do,。
it's not my behavior,。
but my identity.。
As long as I am God's will,。
I can bear eternal life.。
It's not what I do,。
but my status.。
So the question of being is not the question of doing.。
It's the question of status,。
which is being,。
not the question of doing.。
This is the first question,。
the question of making mistakes.。
The question of this young official is the same.。
The question of making mistakes is the same.。
It's not what I do that can earn eternal life.。
Eternal life depends on your status.。
The only way to enter eternal life,。
is to enter heaven.。
It can only be a question of God's will.。
Let's look at the second sentence.。
After the theologian asked,。
because this is a theologian,。
Jesus asked how to write the law,。
how to understand it.。
I just explained that Jesus asked two important questions.。
Because you know how to write the law,。
but your understanding is wrong,。
it is also wrong.。
This is the question of Jesus.。
The most wonderful thing about Jesus is his question,。
which made the theologian think again.。
The theologian had prepared the answer,。
when he asked Jesus,。
he had prepared the answer.。
He answered immediately,。
I am the God of all life, all power, all love,。
and I love you more than myself.。
This answer is different from the one Jesus asked,。
which is the most important one in the world.。
Because his question is,。
what do I do to earn eternal life,。
which is not the most important one in the world.。
But Jesus is very wonderful.。
Jesus answered him,。
yes, you are right.。
If you walk like this, you will have eternal life.。
It is very strange.。
Walk means to walk for eternal life.。
Is there any mistake?。
Jesus Christ was very direct when he had a dialogue with Nehemiah.。
He did not turn back,。
did not let him think slowly.。
He directly told him,。
God loves all people,。
even gave him his only son to them.。
According to the verse,。
those who believe in Jesus are not like the blind man who has eternal life.。
Those who have eternal life have to believe in Jesus Christ.。
Jesus Christ did not talk to Nehemiah directly.。
Why did he not talk to him directly?。
We will see later why he was not so direct.。
Because when a person is proud,。
Jesus Christ is not so direct.。
Jesus answered this question,。
you have to walk like this to have eternal life.。
Let's see if we can walk.。
The Greek Apostle Paul clearly said,。
"People are not pure by walking the law,。
but because they believe in Jesus Christ."。
Not by walking the law,。
because no one can be pure by walking the law.。
If you can be pure by walking the law,。
Jesus Christ would have died in vain.。
He did not need to die on the cross.。
Because we can't follow the law,。
we can't follow the law completely.。
So Jesus Christ would have died on the cross.。
But when the Greek Apostle asked this question,。
he thought from a self-centered perspective.。
He did not think that the Bible was not written yet,。
but we have a copy to see Paul's explanation.。
Paul said that Abraham believed in God。
because he believed in God and was called a man.。
He was called a man because of his faith.。
And those who follow the law are under the protection of God.。
Why?。
Because those who do not follow the law,。
those who obey all the commandments, are under the protection of God.。
It means that even if you can follow a part of the law,。
but you can't follow all the commandments,。
all the commandments are under the protection of God.。
So there is a very obvious reason,。
no one can be called a man by following the law in front of God.。
You have to live by faith, not by doing.。
So the question is,。
why didn't Jesus directly say that he would do it?。
Why?。
Actually, Jesus' answer is that。
he hoped that the Greek Apostle would listen to him,。
and if he was sincere, he would answer Jesus.。
He said, "Jesus, I can't do it, I can't follow the law."。
If he was sincere, he would say so.。
But he was not only not sincere,。
he wanted to prove himself right,。
and then ask another question.。
Why did Jesus ask this question?。
Let him know he can't do it.。
Let's compare two conversations.。
The first conversation is in Luke 18,。
Jesus and this young official,。
the rich official's conversation.。
This person asked him what to do to be eternal.。
Jesus told him,。
"You have missed one thing,。
which is to become a poor man,。
and then follow me."。
Jesus did not tell him about the righteousness of faith.。
Jesus said that he could not do it.。
So this person heard it and knew he could not do it,。
and left with great sorrow,。
because he was very rich.。
He loved money more than he loved God.。
In the parable of Samaria,。
Jesus asked him to do this,。
that is, to love God, to love himself,。
and then to be eternal.。
This request was also not done by this lawmaker.。
Like this young military officer,。
Jesus did not fulfill his request.。
He was honest,。
he told Jesus that he could not do it.。
The White House did not do it.。
Instead, he had to prove that he was right,。
and then asked, "Who is my messenger?"。
These two sentences,。
strictly speaking,。
can be used as a topic for a lecture.。
Because I recently understood that。
this sentence is very important.。
I want to explain and prove that。
I am right,。
"Justify himself" means。
"Justify" means to be called righteousness.。
I want to explain two concepts.。
The first concept is "Justification by Faith".。
What is "Justification by Faith"?。
God who is righteous。
announces a righteous sinner as righteousness.。
Because this righteous sinner。
believed in Jesus Christ and his cross.。
So this righteous sinner's sin。
was added to Jesus Christ.。
He took responsibility for us on the cross.。
At the same time,。
the righteousness of the righteous Jesus Christ。
was added to the guilty person。
and was called and regarded as innocent.。
This is "Justification by Faith".。
What is "Justification by Faith"?。
In English, it is "Self-Justification".。
When an innocent sinner announces his righteousness,。
I am right, you are wrong.。
This is "Justification by Faith".。
When a person wants to prove that he is right,。
this is "Justification by Faith".。
Why do I explain this sentence?。
If we think about our life,。
we are often like this.。
Think about when we serve in the church,。
when the brothers and sisters have different opinions,。
we often argue in these discussions.。
Everyone tries to prove that he is right.。
A group of sinners to prove that。
I am right, you are wrong.。
When we are self-righteous,。
when there is a dispute in the church,。
when there is a division in the church,。
we often serve in the church,。
when we are in the family,。
when we are at work,。
when we are with other colleagues,。
we often prove that we are right。
as a sinner.。
This is "Justification by Faith".。
So when this Lawmaker。
is sincere,。
he should say that I can't do this,。
I can't keep these commandments.。
He didn't say that.。
He still has to prove that he is right.。
A sinner in front of God of justice,。
in front of the only righteous follower of Jesus Christ,。
has to prove that he is right and Jesus is wrong.。
So he asked Jesus,。
"Who is my shepherd?"。
This sentence is also very important.。
If we look at it again,。
"Who is my shepherd?"。
What does it mean?。
When he can't keep the law,。
if he is sincere,。
he knows that he can't do his best。
to love God.。
In fact, we can't keep it.。
Why?。
Every day we get up,。
many times we value our career,。
our family,。
and the many things around us.。
We turn our idols into God.。
We often abuse God's name.。
Why do we abuse God's name?。
When I call Jesus, "I am my Savior",。
and I have to follow him,。
my heart and my actions are far from him.。
I call Jesus "my Savior",。
"My Lord, my Lord",。
actually insulting Jesus.。
I am abusing his name.。
Because I don't treat him as my Lord.。
When my heart is far from God,。
I still call him Lord.。
I am abusing his name.。
We keep breaking the ten commandments.。
This prophet can't keep the commandments.。
He has to collect the proportion of the proportion.。
Because he doesn't love everyone.。
He just wants to love those。
who are pure and pure.。
To prove himself right,。
he can only love those。
he chooses,。
or those chosen by God,。
not including the outsiders.。
He tries to love those。
he doesn't love,。
such as the outsiders and his enemies.。
So if you ask him,。
"Who is my Savior?"。
The same question is,。
"Who is not my Savior?"。
I can not love.。
I have to love them.。
If not, I don't have to love.。
So he hopes,。
not to follow the law,。
but to not follow the commandments。
in some cases.。
He doesn't want to follow the commandments.。
He wants to be certain。
that he doesn't have to follow the commandments。
if he chooses them.。
Because I don't have to love them.。
So his question is,。
"In some cases,。
how can I not follow the commandments?"。
Or,。
he wants to ask,。
"Who can I not love?。
Who can I not love?"。
He is asking this question.。
So when the Lawyer asked,。
"Who is my Savior?"。
"I love my Savior."。
That is, I give my Savior my own grace.。
I am the "I" in the Self-Center.。
I am the "I" in the Self-Defense.。
I am the "I" who is the Savior.。
I don't need help.。
He can't see that he needs compassion.。
He thinks that others need to be graced.。
He is the "I" who is the Savior.。
So I want to share with you a saying.。
A person is difficult to recognize in self-doubt.。
He can't see that he is guilty.。
On the contrary, a sinner。
who knows his sins,。
like those who follow Jesus,。
the Pharisees, the sinners, the disciples,。
they know their sins and follow Jesus.。
A person in self-doubt,。
no matter how high his status is,。
he can't see that he is guilty.。
So many people today。
don't think they are guilty and need to find Jesus.。
They think they are a good person.。
OK.。
Let's briefly talk about。
the first part of the sermon.。
The problem of the Law of Correctness and Iniquity.。
Because entering the kingdom of heaven。
is a matter of status.。
It is not an act.。
He knows how the law is written,。
but his understanding is not accurate.。
He can't guard the greatest of these revelations.。
But he doesn't admit it.。
On the contrary, he thinks he needs to。
narrow the scope of the revelation.。
So he thinks he is a sinner.。
Let's look at the second part.。
This is an example.。
The first level,。
I just mentioned,。
I will briefly mention it to everyone.。
The first level,。
the Pharisees,。
they think they are sinners.。
They think the Jews who need to be saved。
are the people who go to Jericho.。
The strength of the hurt people。
is not concerned with the people of the church.。
The Pharisees are the ones who are。
moved by the law.。
They have a heart and action.。
What do we see in the second level?。
In the first level,。
we see these things.。
From the first level to the second level,。
the key point is the question Jesus asked.。
How did Jesus ask this question?。
He said, "Who is the one who fell into the hands of the rapists?"。
If I compare this sentence。
to the question asked by the Pharisees,。
the first level of the Pharisees,。
they asked, "Who is my servant?"。
This is me, himself.。
He thought he was a sinner.。
The servant is the recipient.。
Jesus asked him to turn from this perspective。
to the question, "Who is the one who fell into the hands of the rapists?"。
The person who was hurt.。
Jesus asked this question。
to turn the Pharisees' self-centeredness。
from the fact that they do not need to be saved。
and they think they are the recipients。
to the perspective that they are the victims.。
He thought about this question.。
So this time Jesus was very ingenious。
to change the perspective of the Pharisees.。
"Who am I?"。
The Pharisees are no longer。
the recipients who have the ability。
but do not need to be saved.。
When Jesus Christ took them to think。
from this perspective,。
they were the people who fell into the hands of the rapists。
and were half dead and could not save themselves.。
This is a very powerful change in identity and perspective.。
Because he broke the tradition。
of the Pharisees' misconception.。
Jesus Christ had to pull them out of self-doubt.。
Why did he do that?。
In the Gospel of Luke,。
when Jesus Christ called on the Pharisees,。
the Pharisees were the same person who wrote the Gospel of Matthew.。
When he asked Matthew to follow him,。
Matthew did not say a word and gave up everything and followed Jesus.。
He even had a big feast at home。
and invited many tax collectors and other people.。
The Pharisees saw this and complained to Jesus Christ。
why he was with tax collectors and sinners.。
These other people are considered sinners.。
He looked down on these people, although they were Jews.。
He looked down on them and regarded them as the rapists.。
Jesus answered,。
"Healthy people do not need doctors,。
sick people need them."。
This is actually a way of rebuking.。
It is not that these people are healthy and not sick.。
It is that they can't see themselves.。
They think they are selfish.。
They think they don't need other people's help,。
other people's grace, other people's compassion.。
They think they are okay.。
They don't need help.。
They don't need repentance.。
So Jesus answered,。
"Healthy people are these selfish people.。
They don't need doctors or God.。
Sick people, these sinners,。
know that there is a sin,。
and the one who knows the sin is easy,。
knows that he is sick,。
and goes to God.。
Selfish people。
can't see the need and think they are healthy.。
So this healthy person is a repudiation.。
A person who repudiates them and despises them.。
And Jesus Christ came to make sinners repent.。
He didn't come to call the righteous.。
These people are not really righteous.。
They are selfish people.。
I am not here to call these selfish people.。
I am calling those who know the sin to repent.。
Jesus not only said it once here.。
He also said the same thing in the parable of the lost sheep.。
When I explained the parable of the lost sheep,。
the silver lost, and the return of the wolf,。
this parable of the three-placed one,。
I said that the 99 sheep were not enough.。
At that time, some people understood for the first time.。
Because he thought for many years,。
he thought the 99 sheep were fine.。
Actually, it was not enough.。
Why? Jesus also used a method of rebuke。
to describe them as "servants who do not need repentance."。
So the parable of the lost sheep is that。
when a lost sheep can be found,。
it is equivalent to a sinner repenting.。
Heaven will be happy for him.。
It is greater than the 99 servants who do not need repentance.。
Those who do not need repentance and are selfish people。
will be happier.。
So the 99 sheep are not enough.。
The few who get enough are the minority.。
Although they are similar to those in the church,。
the minority get enough.。
Because when a person is selfish,。
you can't see the sin, you won't admit it.。
Today, this is also what we need to be careful about in the church.。
Because these scholars are people who read the Bible,。
people who have power in the church,。
people who directly participate in the church,。
but people who do not get enough,。
because they are self-defense.。
So Jesus Christ, in this question,。
from "who is my shepherd"。
to "who is the shepherd of what people?"。
"The one in the hands of the powerful."。
This person is half dead and cannot save himself.。
"The one in the hands of the powerful."。
He is no longer the sinner who does not need salvation.。
When this perspective changes,。
Jesus Christ leads the Pharisees to leave the perspective of self-defense。
and turn to the perspective of "the one in the hands of the powerful."。
"The one in the hands of the powerful."。
This perspective changes and breaks the understanding of the Pharisees。
to the original of Aaron.。
Why?。
First, now he is the half-dead,。
the one who is deprived and cannot save himself.。
He can't pretend to be healthy and doesn't need a doctor.。
He can't pretend to be innocent and doesn't need salvation.。
He can no longer be a self-willed person who does not need salvation.。
This is the first break.。
The second break is that he used to be a fan of the Samaelites.。
But it turns out that even the enemies can be divided into sects.。
It turns out that the sects are not divided into sects and not divided into races.。
This is the second point to be broken for the view.。
Third, for those who bear eternal life,。
the salvation of God is not divided into sects and races.。
It is no longer limited to the Jews.。
The salvation is not only for the Jews,。
but also for all the people of the world,。
as Abraham blessed all the nations.。
The salvation of this savior is extremely generous.。
He does not calculate his own price,。
does not fear the danger,。
does not calculate his own price,。
but is generous and selfless.。
This is the Samaritan from the heart to the action,。
to carry out this covenant and request.。
When we look at the second level,。
we look at the lawmaker again.。
Now this victim is himself.。
He is a half-dead person who cannot be saved.。
On the contrary, his fellow travelers,。
his buddies,。
none of them can follow the law.。
Both of them left when they saw it.。
This sentence let him know that the religion cannot help us follow the law.。
The religion cannot save us.。
On the contrary, the Samaritan he hates has moved his heart,。
to be immediately healed,。
arrange long-term care,。
even arrange a very generous plan to save and take care of them.。
So when we look at it from a different perspective,。
the answers to these questions are different.。
So we look at this passage again.。
We see that this Samaritan is from the heart。
to follow the law.。
The Samaritan is from the perspective of the victim,。
to understand the needs of the victim,。
then to follow the law.。
This is called loving the world and loving yourself.。
He starts from the perspective of the victim's needs,。
not self-doubting,。
giving what you need.。
He gives immediate help,。
long-term, unlimited help,。
immediate medical care.。
The Samaritan will continue to take care of this person。
and reward and help the owner.。
So after the second level,。
we look at the questions just now.。
Who am I?。
I am the Lord, I am the Lord.。
This is the law.。
This time his perspective is different.。
He needs to save the one.。
Because Jesus told him,。
you need to save that person from that perspective.。
He is now half dead and unable to save himself.。
He needs to rely on the connection and grace of the Savior.。
What are the people who are hurt?。
Those strongholds.。
Who are not concerned?。
His buddies, his friends,。
priests, hypocrites,。
these religious active participants.。
Their behavior and faith are incompatible.。
At the same time,。
all behaviors cannot be guarded.。
If all behaviors are not guarded,。
they will be saved.。
Unless he relies on the grace of God,。
the grace of God.。
Who is the guardian of the law?。
It is the enemy of the former heart, the Samaritan.。
Because this time from the perspective of the lawmaker,。
this is his enemy.。
But his enemy can guard the law,。
go from the heart to guard the law.。
And this Samaritan is this disciple.。
So if you look at the last sentence,。
you can do it as usual.。
It's almost the same as the first time.。
The only thing is that we have seen through it.。
The lawmaker also needs to be saved.。
Okay, if we take the whole story from the third level。
and expand it to other Bibles,。
we can see who is good.。
Samaritan.。
Because it mentions the heart of the Samaritan,。
or some Bibles also called the Samaritan's heart.。
This word is all out.。
New Testament, Old Testament.。
The New Testament talks about Jesus Christ.。
Jesus Christ saw those who were suffering from rheumatism,。
and the heart of the Samaritan.。
He touched them with his hands and healed them.。
Jesus Christ saw those blind people who could not see,。
and he touched their eyes with his hands.。
They immediately saw.。
If we look at the last three books,。
the last sentence is also about Jesus Christ.。
He touched the people who could not see,。
because they were in trouble.。
Like sheep without a shepherd.。
Jesus Christ saw a large number of people,。
touched them with his hands and healed them.。
Jesus Christ called them to come.。
I touched the people with my hands and healed them.。
Because they had nothing to eat for three days.。
Jesus Christ said that the Lord touched the people with his hands。
and released them from their debts.。
So, who is the one who touched the people with his hands and healed them?。
The one who touched the people with his hands and healed them is the Samaritan,。
the one who released the dead from the body.。
This is our Savior Jesus Christ.。
If we look at the Old Testament,。
in the 103rd chapter of the Old Testament,。
God is full of grace and does not show off his face.。
So, the Old Testament talks about the Father.。
Jesus Christ is the God who touched the body of the flesh。
and showed it to the people.。
So, if this Savior is the Samaritan,。
this Samaritan is Jesus Christ,。
then we can see that every sentence,。
there is a meaning in this parable.。
A spiritual meaning.。
For example, he used oil and wine。
to heal the sick.。
If we look at the picture of Jesus,。
the picture of the Ten Commandments,。
when he was called to repent,。
he drove away many devils。
and used oil to heal the sick.。
So, oil and wine to heal the sick。
represents healing.。
Then he carried him up to the mountain。
and took care of him.。
What does "carrying" mean?。
In the Book of Acts,。
the God told the Israelites,。
"I will carry you when you are born.。
I will support you.。
I will hold you.。
It represents salvation.。
So, the long-term care。
is to carry you up。
like a symbol of salvation.。
The Bible says。
when the God of Egypt took them out of the wilderness。
and left the land,。
the God said,。
"Your God will carry you。
like carrying his own son."。
It means carrying you。
because I treat you as my son.。
You have the fate of a son.。
You are chosen by God.。
This is the will of God.。
Then, I will give you unlimited money.。
I will give you money to take care of the shopkeeper.。
I will give you other expenses.。
It means unlimited money.。
Then, I will grant you.。
So, in the Book of Acts,。
Matthew and Luke,。
the prophet will come back.。
Samaritan will come back to see us.。
So, after watching this story,。
if we look at it from a perspective of。
the repentance of sin,。
this Samaritan is our Savior Jesus Christ.。
He came to us from the flesh。
and knew that we were in the midst of sin.。
He moved the hearts of the people。
and used the wine of the right hand to support us,。
to help us, to save us.。
He prepared a place for us。
and will come back in the future.。
This is the whole story。
about the Savior Jesus Christ.。
Not only did he ask us to help people,。
the most important thing is who this Samaritan is.。
The Savior Jesus Christ.。
Then, when we look at it again,。
we ask the same question.。
If we go to the third level,。
from a perspective of the repentance of sin,。
to look at this Samaritan,。
who am I?。
I am the one who is half dead and in the hands of the robbers.。
Why half dead?。
I was spiritually dead.。
I was not dead physically,。
so I was half dead.。
I was spiritually dead,。
I was waiting to die physically.。
If I were dead physically,。
I would have been dead.。
I couldn't be saved.。
But Jesus Christ connected us,。
came to save us.。
The Holy Spirit,。
with the Holy Spirit,。
purified our souls,。
so we can wake up.。
We are half dead.。
Spiritually, we are dead.。
The Holy Spirit purified our souls.。
We also violate other people's strength.。
Some doctrines say。
this strength is a devil.。
I disagree.。
We can't blame the devil.。
We can't blame the devil.。
Like Adam,。
when he was in trouble,。
he blamed Eve,。
Eve blamed the snake.。
We commit a crime because of our selfishness.。
We can't be arrogant,。
we can't be indifferent.。
We often violate others.。
We are also that strength.。
Sometimes we are the ones who care about others,。
the priests and the others.。
Who am I?。
I am one of these three types of people.。
We are all sinners.。
No matter how long we have been in the church,。
we remember that we are sinners without cause.。
We still have a sinning tendency.。
We have to rely on God's grace to change every day.。
Who is the Lord Jesus Christ?。
The Lord Jesus Christ,。
who came to us from the city of sin。
and resuscitated us from the sin of the Sinian people,。
the Lord Jesus Christ,。
is the Lord Jesus Christ.。
So we love God and we love the Lord Jesus Christ.。
It's like a mirror.。
When we understand how to love God and love the Lord Jesus Christ,。
we will be able to love the Lord Jesus Christ.。
Who is the Lord Jesus Christ?。
The Lord Jesus Christ, who moved the heart of the sinner.。
So the whole story is about the Lord Jesus Christ,。
not just about the Lord Jesus Christ,。
who helped those in need.。
The Lord Jesus Christ,。
who came to us from the city of sin and resuscitated us from the sin of the Sinian people,。
moved the heart of the sinner,。
the Sinian people,。
and saved the sinners on the cross.。
He made all the sinners perish,。
and the sinners be saved forever.。
This is the most accurate example of the Samaritan.。
Why did I say that Jesus Christ is the one who followed the law?。
Because only Jesus Christ followed the law.。
He can follow the law.。
In the Matthew and the Book of Mormon,。
Jesus said,。
"Do not think that I have come to abolish the law and the prophets.。
I am not here to abolish,。
I am here to survive.。
The law and the prophets are just old books.。
There are three kinds of law in the Old Testament.。
For example, the Ten Commandments are moral laws.。
Only Jesus Christ can follow them.。
None of us can follow them.。
The law of the law of the law,。
that is, the law of the state,。
Jesus did not violate.。
The most important thing is the law of the law.。
The most important thing is to limit the lamb,。
not the sheep.。
It is Jesus Christ.。
This innocent lamb,。
the former prophet,。
is a sheep,。
a sign of the Savior in the future.。
This Savior is the innocent one,。
Jesus Christ, who died for the guilty.。
This perfect lamb,。
the lamb that died for the people,。
the prophet,。
is Jesus Christ.。
So Jesus Christ came to survive.。
In the Old Testament,。
the lamb,。
the lamb of the prophet,。
the prophet that God appointed,。
is Jesus Christ.。
He died for the guilty.。
This is the story.。
So when we see the third level,。
we can see that this is a metaphor for the guilt.。
So when we understand it,。
we know that we live in sin.。
We can't save ourselves.。
We can't take it for granted.。
Once we take it for granted,。
we can't see our sin.。
The life of religion,。
the knowledge of religion,。
the status of religion。
can't help us follow the Revolution.。
No one can be born again because of the Revolution.。
We can't rely on our actions.。
We can't rely on our doings.。
But we humans。
actually treat our Savior as our enemy.。
We nailed Jesus to the cross.。
People are saved。
because they need the union of the Savior.。
We don't rely on our actions.。
We rely on our identity.。
And the only identity is to be God's children.。
But to be God's children。
is not to rely on people's actions.。
It's all God's grace.。
It's God's grace.。
God's union.。
We have no credit.。
And God's union.。
The subject of the personal grace point。
is not divided into nationality and race.。
It includes our Savior.。
So when you like someone enough,。
don't be unhappy.。
This is what God did in the Bible.。
It doesn't matter if I like it or not.。
On the contrary, God wants me to love my Savior.。
So we need to be able to。
keep the first commandment.。
First, we need to believe in Jesus Christ。
and know that we are sinners and repent.。
When you repent,。
you know you have sinned,。
you will be grateful。
and you will have a response to God's love.。
God loves us first.。
We love God.。
Then we have the ability to love others.。
So how do you do it?。
Who do you follow?。
We follow the Savior.。
This is Jesus Christ.。
Our Savior.。
According to his life,。
his behavior,。
his style,。
we follow Jesus and live according to Christ.。
This is the meaning of following the way of worship.。
Not just to learn to help those in need.。
Those who need it.。
But the level is not the deepest.。
The most important level is。
to live in the style of the Savior.。
Why do we have to follow Jesus?。
Because faith without behavior is dead.。
If our behavior is not consistent with repentance,。
it is fake.。
We are not really saved.。
Why do we have to follow Jesus?。
Because the reason for God's love is to make us repent.。
And we have God's love.。
Jesus Christ is the glory of God.。
The truth of God's body.。
God is Jesus Christ.。
Showing God's holiness to us.。
To follow Christ,。
we have to write the Bible.。
Follow him in the cross.。
I explained this in the previous video.。
I have to put myself as the center.。
Give up the "what".。
"What" is the reason for my crime.。
That thing is my sin when I am the center.。
I have to follow Jesus Christ as the center.。
Use him as an example to live our lives.。
Change our values.。
We prepare the cross at any time.。
We have to follow him in this way.。
Finally, I want to explain.。
If we want to be saved by faith,。
why do we still have to follow God?。
Why do we have to love God?。
Why do we have to love the Holy Spirit?。
In fact, the whole chapter of Luke 10,。
it emphasizes the status, status,。
that is, the "being" is important,。
not the behavior.。
If we look at Luke 10,。
Jesus sent 72 disciples to preach the gospel.。
Then they came back very happy and told Jesus,。
"Lord, because of your name, even the devil has conquered us."。
Jesus told them,。
"Do not be happy because the devil has conquered you."。
Do not be so happy because of your behavior.。
"But rejoice in the record of your name in heaven."。
That is, your status is already in heaven.。
This is important.。
So Jesus followed and praised God.。
The Holy Spirit made him happy.。
He said, "Father, the Lord of heaven and earth praises you,。
because you have hidden this matter from the wise and smart people."。
The wise and smart people are like the philosophers,。
they think they are smart.。
So Jesus did not directly tell the truth.。
Jesus told him something so that he knew,。
indirectly knew that he could not do it.。
He did not tell him directly.。
He told him that he had to be reborn,。
to be reborn in water and spirit.。
But for some people who think they are smart,。
sometimes Jesus did not give him a direct answer.。
He indirectly showed him that he was not able to do it.。
He had to rely on God.。
So here is the dialogue between the philosophers and Jesus.。
We are talking about the metaphor today.。
This scripture we see now is that。
to be eternal, to bear eternal life is a matter of status.。
Only those who are God can be born.。
It is not up to you to be born.。
The last ten chapters are the story of Matthew and Mary.。
Matthew was worried about what he was doing.。
Jesus said, "Mary has chosen the best part,。
this part is the identity.。
The part of God in God, no one can take it away.。
So the whole 10 chapters of Matthew and Mary。
emphasize the identity of status.。
Heaven is more important than relying on action to enter heaven.。
As a child of God,。
how to do this identity?。
There have been many explanations.。
In the Gospel of John, it says, "The first of the ages is the coming of the coming of Jesus Christ,。
who will come to our world, and will be with God.。
He is God.。
But those who accept him are those who accept Jesus Christ,。
and those who believe in his name.。
God is like these people,。
power and peace, and the offspring of God.。
So to enter heaven and to bear eternal life,。
you must have the status of the offspring of God.。
How to have this status?。
Accept Jesus Christ as your Savior,。
and believe in his name.。
This power and peace as the offspring of God,。
this power and peace is like us.。
In the Book of Galatians, it is mentioned that。
when the time comes,。
God will cast out his offspring,。
which is Jesus Christ.。
This offspring is born from a woman,。
born under the law.。
He wants to save people out of the law,。
to protect us from the name of the son,。
which is Jesus Christ.。
He wants to save us, so we can have the status of the offspring of God.。
God will cast out the offspring of God,。
which is the Holy Spirit entering our hearts.。
In this case, we can rely on God's offspring。
to bear the fruit of the womb,。
and to bear eternal life.。
This is God's grace, not our own.。
So Jesus Christ emphasized in his "Prayer to the Gate of the Covenant"。
that God is like eternal life.。
This "like" is not what we have earned,。
but what God has given us.。
The purpose of God's grace is to make us repent.。
So here, the second chapter of the Book of Galatians。
says that God's grace is to make us repent.。
And when people repent,。
it means that they know their sins,。
they know God's forgiveness.。
When we know that we have committed many sins,。
God has forgiven us,。
we will love God more.。
In the conversation between Simon and Jesus,。
Jesus led Simon to answer,。
"I want to be merciful."。
That is, people who have many sins and are merciful。
will have a greater response to God's love.。
To bear eternal life,。
we have to rely on the Holy Spirit to cause death to our bodies.。
The Holy Spirit leads us.。
We are not completely。
by the grace of God.。
But after we are saved,。
we rely on God, on the Holy Spirit。
to help us to cause death to our bodies.。
In our holy mind,。
we walk from sin to righteousness。
until we see the Lord.。
And when we are willing to walk this path,。
we are actually the children of God.。
Only the children of God have the Holy Spirit to guide us,。
to help us walk from sin to righteousness.。
So why do we have to follow the Covenant?。
The Covenant is not given to those who have not been saved.。
If we look at the Old Testament,。
God first saved the Israelites with Moses,。
and then issued the law.。
It was not given to the law to save them,。
the law was first saved,。
but God saved the Israelites,。
and then issued the law to them.。
So people cannot rely on the law to be saved.。
Why do this?。
Because the law is given to those who have been saved.。
How to guard?。
It is to be transformed by the Holy Spirit,。
so that we can follow the law of God.。
So why do we have to follow the law?。
Not because the law can save us,。
but the law helps us to learn。
the Holy Spirit, justice and good.。
Why? The Old Testament is very clear.。
In the 7th chapter of the Old Testament,。
it is mentioned in the 12th chapter,。
"The law of God is the Holy Spirit,。
and the Covenant is the Holy Spirit, justice and good."。
So when God first saved the Israelites,。
after the Israelites were saved,。
the law helped them to learn。
what is the Holy Spirit, justice and good.。
We are the same.。
The law of God is not the way to be saved.。
The way to be saved is to follow the law.。
And when we follow the law,。
God gives us the Holy Spirit,。
so that we can love others.。
Why? Because in Matthew,。
there is a passage that is easy to be misunderstood.。
In the 7th chapter of the Book of Mormon,。
"You pray, and I will open the door for you.。
You seek, and I will build. You beg, and I will open the door for you."。
Many people see this sentence and say,。
"I have a long list of things I want,。
but I have to ask God for this and that."。
But actually, this passage is not like that.。
It is not like we want to ask God for what we want.。
What is it about?。
In the 11th chapter,。
"Although you are evil,"。
we should pay attention to this sentence.。
Jesus Christ told the believers,。
"Although you are evil,。
but you know that the good things will come to you.。
And the Father in heaven will not。
give the good things to the people who seek Him."。
What is this good thing?。
In the Book of Mormon,。
it explains that this good thing is。
"the spirit of God will not be able to reach those who seek Him."。
We pray,。
not for a list of things we want to ask God for.。
We pray for the spirit to enter our hearts。
and help us to die for our sins.。
So that we can...。
So, how do you want to treat people?。
How do you want people to treat you?。
How do you want to treat people?。
Love people as yourself.。
That is, we pray,。
ask God for the spirit to fill us.。
Pray for us to love others as we love ourselves.。
Love others as we love ourselves.。
This is the general meaning of the law and the prophet.。
So here, this "give, give, give, give, give"。
is for others, not for ourselves.。
We pray for the spirit,。
pray for God to give us the spirit to fill us.。
Pray for us to obey God's teaching。
to love others as we love ourselves.。
That's what it means.。
But this door is narrow.。
So, finally, I will use the example of the eight books.。
The eight books are eight kinds of qualities,。
not the conditions of salvation.。
These eight books have been reborn,。
have been reborn by the Holy Spirit,。
the qualities of the salvation of the Christian.。
They are from seeing their own sins,。
knowing that their souls are in need of God,。
and feeling sorrow for their sins.。
Then, because we have nothing,。
everything is dependent on God's grace,。
we become gentle,。
not to compete with others.。
We are unselfish,。
love God's work,。
we love God.。
Then, because we have the grace of God,。
we also have the grace of others.。
We love others.。
We don't calculate.。
We are unselfish.。
We live with people and God.。
We don't calculate ourselves.。
Like this priest and this Limei person,。
they calculate their own safety,。
their own benefits.。
They believe in God and don't consider their own benefits.。
They are peaceful,。
love others, including their enemies.。
In the end, they are even forced to do evil.。
So, it is a life of turning to righteousness.。
From believing in repentance,。
to changing our mind,。
to changing our behavior,。
this is a way of life,。
to learn the way of Christianity.。
I will use this picture to explain。
the difference between "grace, faith, and righteousness" and "guarding the cross".。
Before we were saved,。
I drew two roads here.。
This is a narrow road,。
this is a wide road.。
Before we enter the narrow road of heaven,。
we cannot rely on our behavior.。
We enter heaven to believe in the grace of Jesus Christ,。
to save us from our sins,。
to be moved by the Holy Spirit.。
So, we pray for the Holy Spirit to move us,。
to let us know our sins,。
to accept our sins,。
to understand God's love for us.。
Then we can have a response,。
repentance,。
life change, behavior change,。
and accept Jesus Christ as our Savior.。
Because God loves us first,。
we are forgiven,。
we can love God,。
and have a response to God.。
God loves us first,。
we can love God,。
and love people.。
We need the Holy Spirit to revive our sins,。
so that we can follow the way of Christ.。
Before entering this road,。
we need to clear this step,。
we cannot rely on our behavior,。
it is completely God's grace,。
it is the work of the Holy Spirit.。
After entering this road,。
this road is eternal,。
we walk to the end of our lives,。
this holy road.。
So we are not done yet.。
We have cleared the path,。
no longer under the law.。
So we have to follow the law,。
we have to work hard to walk this path.。
Work hard not by our own ability,。
work hard is to follow the Holy Spirit,。
to die for the evil of the body.。
We must live,。
because the spirit of the devil is actually the work of God.。
So when we enter this path,。
we will make mistakes,。
we will turn from sin to righteousness.。
In this process,。
in this path of holiness,。
in this growth,。
we are not perfect.。
We cannot rely on the law,。
but we have to follow the law,。
because the law helps us to learn。
the righteousness of the Holy Spirit.。
We are no longer under the law,。
even if I make a mistake,。
I will not be judged by the law,。
because I am under the grace of God,。
Jesus Christ has paid the price for my sin.。
In this process,。
we continue to change our thoughts and ideas,。
from sin to righteousness,。
live in the way of Christ,。
change our behavior and life,。
and walk out of our faith and life。
in harmony with one another.。
Then we can love God,。
love the Holy Spirit.。
We are not perfect,。
but with the help of the Holy Spirit,。
we will gradually die for our sins,。
from sin to righteousness,。
walk this path until we see God.。
This is the path of salvation for the sheep,。
the sheep of the sheep.。
The most dangerous is this path of sheep.。
This path of sheep is also uncertain,。
but it is very close to this narrow road.。
These sheep think they are with the sheep,。
they are also saved.。
But on the day of judgment,。
they suddenly wake up,。
they are not saved,。
because they do not repent of their sins,。
repentance includes changing thoughts and ideas,。
life is a way of change,。
that is repentance.。
Today, many people, even those in the church,。
we know our sins, but we do not repent.。
We live in the same church,。
it is very possible that we are walking on a path of life,。
so everyone must be careful,。
reflect on yourself.。
Finally, I want to explain,。
this sentence is said by the Bible,。
"The Lord who loves you wholeheartedly, wholeheartedly, wholeheartedly,。
and loves himself and the disciples."。
Why do we have to do so many things?。
There is a reason.。
Because when Jesus Christ corrected the Jews。
about the concept of loving the disciples,。
he told us,。
"You not only love the disciples you love,。
but also worship your enemies and pray for them.。
If you do not do this,。
you are still just tax collectors and patriots,。
you are not the children of God.。
Because God is complete, you have to learn from him.。
Learning from him does not mean you are complete.。
We are on this holy path,。
we have to learn from him.。
That is, we cannot stay in sin,。
we should always stay in the Lord's love.。
Even if we are still in sin,。
we should be determined.。
We should respect God,。
love God, and start to live in the name of God,。
to change our lives,。
to die for our sins,。
to walk that path.。
But we have to learn to follow the law,。
to learn to learn the love of the Holy Spirit.。
Because the Lord we will meet in the future。
is the Lord of the love of the Holy Spirit.。
We have to learn how to learn the love of the Holy Spirit.。
Because he has already given us the law,。
taught us to walk this path.。
So you do it like a talent.。
The talent is to follow Jesus Christ.。
So we follow Jesus Christ,。
live in Christ.。
So loving the disciples is not a condition to enter heaven.。
It is a life performance of a blind man who has been reborn.。
Why do we have to be wholehearted,。
wholeheartedly, wholeheartedly?。
Because we are enemies.。
We cannot rely on our feelings.。
I don't want to.。
I don't want to.。
But God teaches us to support with will.。
When I don't want to,。
we know God calls us to love our enemies.。
Because we love God.。
My will tells me to do my best.。
I will do it with my life.。
So why do we have to be wholehearted, wholeheartedly, wholeheartedly?。
Will is the will.。
When I don't want to, my will tells me to do my best.。
I will do my best.。
The same sentence is said in the Gospel of Luke.。
When Jesus Christ explains how we should love our enemies,。
he says, "If you love only those who love you,。
what good is it?。
Sinners love those who love them."。
Sinners will do the same.。
If we only love our enemies,。
we are no different from sinners.。
Our identity is also a sinner,。
we are also a patriot.。
And for those who have been reborn,。
we have to pray to God to help us to love our enemies.。
If we are not wholehearted, we have to be wholehearted。
to love our enemies.。
This is very difficult.。
We have to love, not to hate.。
So why do we have to be wholehearted to help us to love our enemies?。
Because my heart is not necessarily,。
but my will tells me to be wholehearted.。
Our heart has to love.。
Because when we are willing,。
we are the will of the Savior.。
So he said, "For God has his own good and evil,。
you have to be like him,。
follow Christ,。
follow Christ,。
follow Christ,。
love God, love the Holy Spirit, love your enemies."。
I will share with you today.。
If you have any questions,。
because there is no time for answering this time,。
I would like to invite you to comment below my YouTube channel.。
I will answer your questions as much as possible.。
Thank you very much.。
God bless you.。
OK, bye-bye.。
[END]。
