Hello, brothers and sisters.。
Welcome to my teaching today.。
Today I would like to share with you a topic called "Truth and Miracles".。
This topic is in Matthew 12, verses 22-42.。
In my last sermon, Jesus Christ asked me a question.。
"Have you ever read the book of Matthew?"。
The last sermon was in the first third of Matthew 12.。
Today's sermon is in the middle third of Matthew 12.。
First, please listen to the text I read today.。
Matthew 12, verses 22-42.。
It says, "At that time, a man led a blind and naked man to Jesus.。
Jesus healed him, and Abba spoke and saw.。
The people were amazed and said, "Is this not the Son of David?"。
But the Pharisees heard and said, "This man speaks of the devil,。
because he is wearing the robe of the devil.。
Jesus knew their thoughts and said to them,。
"A nation must be united by self-interest.。
One nation must be united by self-interest.。
If Satan drives out Satan, it is a matter of self-interest.。
How can his nation be united?。
I am wearing the robe of the devil.。
Who are you wearing, you sons of the devil?。
They will be your judges.。
I am wearing the robe of the devil.。
Then the kingdom of God has come to you.。
How can a man enter the house of his enemy and take his possessions?。
Unless he first binds the enemy,。
otherwise he cannot take his possessions.。
Those who do not follow me are against me.。
Those who do not repent with me are in the desert.。
So I tell you,。
all sins and blasphemy can be forgiven,。
but blasphemy cannot be forgiven.。
But blasphemy against the Son of Man cannot be forgiven,。
but blasphemy against the Holy Spirit cannot be forgiven.。
The second paragraph is in verse 33.。
You know what is good and what is bad.。
Because you see what is good, you know what is bad.。
You are the wicked.。
How can you speak good words?。
Because the mouth of the heart is full of good words.。
Good people speak good words from the good he has spoken.。
Evil people speak evil words from the evil he has spoken.。
I tell you, all the idle talk that people speak。
must be brought to justice on the day of judgment.。
Because if it is up to you, you will be just.。
But if it is up to you, you will be guilty.。
At that time, there were several people from the city of Valley of the Word who said to Jesus,。
"Teacher, we want you to show us a miracle so that we can see it."。
Jesus answered them,。
"The evil generation of man seeks to see the miracle.。
Except for the miracle of the prophet Jonah,。
there is no miracle that they can see.。
Jonah was in the desert for three days and three nights.。
Similarly, the Son of Man will be in the earth for three days and three nights.。
At the time of judgment, you will be given the sin of the world.。
Because you have not heard the prophecy of Jonah,。
it will be changed.。
See, the greater is the law than Jonah.。
At the time of judgment, the queen of the south will rise and set the sin of the world.。
Because she came from the earth,。
she will hear Solomon's wise words.。
See, the greater is the law than Solomon.。
Today I want to share this scripture with you.。
The last time I talked about the scripture,。
I mentioned Jesus Christ's invitation at the end of Matthew.。
He said, "Those who bear heavy burdens, come to me.。
I will give you rest.。
I am gentle and humble in my heart.。
You should learn from me.。
So that your hearts may be comforted.。
For my burden is light, and my burden is light."。
In the last lecture, I divided the first one-third of Matthew 12。
into three parts.。
The main point is that Jesus' disciples were。
accused of breaking the Sabbath by the Pharisees.。
Jesus quoted David and Zizek to point out。
that he is the eternal King of Kings,。
and the eternal Great Zizek.。
I also explained the focus of the Sabbath.。
The first point is that it doesn't matter what we can do or not do.。
The most important thing about the Sabbath is that there are two main points.。
The first point is that the grace of God allows people to have a rest.。
The second point is that when we have a rest,。
we can get close to God, know God, worship God,。
and reconcile with God.。
This is the most important.。
The real rest is to reconcile with God.。
Because people are separated from God by sin.。
Sin makes us unable to go directly to God.。
To truly rest, Jesus Christ as a Great Zizek,。
and as a God who has no sin,。
to atone for sin and solve the problem of sin.。
So Jesus Christ used his own。
cross to shed blood for us,。
to bring us into the real rest,。
which is to reconcile with God.。
Also in the second chapter of the Bible,。
in chapters 9-14, Jesus healed a man whose hand was dried.。
The Pharisees did not doubt the ability of Jesus to perform miracles.。
But they knew that Jesus Christ could perform miracles,。
but they did not respect him.。
Instead, they hoped that Jesus would heal the man on the Sabbath,。
as a weapon to accuse him,。
and even to kill him.。
The author of Matthew 1, Sittu Matthew,。
quoted Isaiah 42,。
which says that Jesus Christ is the Lord chosen by God.。
He came to suffer,。
to heal and help many in need.。
At the same time, he also brought this good news to the outside world.。
This is what happened in the prophecy of Isaiah.。
Sittu Matthew pointed out that Jesus Christ is the Lord chosen by God.。
He is the Savior, Isaiah.。
Today we will continue this passage,。
Matthew 22.。
If you look at the three chapters in the middle,。
I will divide them into three parts to explain.。
The first part is about the Pharisees slandering Jesus。
by using the king and the disciples to drive out the devil.。
The second part is about the example of the tree and the fruit.。
The third part is about the Pharisees asking Jesus to perform a miracle again.。
I want to emphasize that the miracle I want to talk about today。
is a miracle that can be seen with the naked eye.。
For example, Jesus healed the man and drove the devil away.。
These are visible to the naked eye.。
All that God does can be regarded as a miracle.。
For example, the change of a man's mind and thoughts。
from sin to righteousness is also a miracle.。
But the change of the inner heart cannot be seen.。
So the miracle I want to emphasize today is a miracle that can be seen with the naked eye.。
For example, the miracle of turning water into wine,。
healing the sick and driving away the devil, etc.。
So I want everyone to understand.。
First, let's look at the first passage of the Bible.。
This passage is very special.。
It is a very concise passage.。
At that time, someone brought a blind and mute man to Jesus.。
Jesus healed him.。
The father could speak and see.。
There are three things in this passage.。
First, this man was blind and mute.。
Jesus healed him, that is, drove the devil away.。
This blind and mute man could speak and see.。
When this happened, no one doubted that Jesus could perform a miracle and heal the sick and drive away the devil.。
When everyone noticed, there were two reactions.。
The 23rd chapter says, "Everyone was surprised.。
"Isn't this David's son?"。
So the first group of people who saw this miracle pointed to this man.。
Could it be the Savior, Lezariah?。
Because in the Old Testament, when it comes to David's son,。
it often refers to the future Savior in the Old Testament.。
Lezariah means Savior.。
David's son.。
Because the Old Testament says that the Savior of Israel is David's son.。
So David's son represents the Savior of Israel in the future.。
At the same time, another group of people, the Pharisees, saw this.。
They said, "This man drove the devil away.。
"Is it the devil, the king, the shepherd?"。
So today we want to see what evidence there is in the two names David's son and the Pharisees.。
So that these people have two different ideas.。
So the same thing happened, this miracle happened.。
No one doubted that it would be meaningful to Jesus to perform a miracle.。
The difference is pointing to which two people.。
One is pointing to Lezariah, the Savior.。
The other is the king of the devil.。
First, we have to look at David's son.。
Because in the Old Testament, there are several obvious things that will happen.。
First, the deaf will hear the words of the book.。
The blind can see.。
The poor will rejoice because of the Lord's Word.。
And the poor will be happy because of the victory of Israel.。
I want you to pay attention to this.。
When Isaiah mentioned Lezariah,。
it was to cure the sick.。
But there is a purpose.。
Because the deaf can hear is a method.。
It's not over yet.。
The real purpose is that the Savior came。
to let the deaf hear the words of the book,。
which is the Word of God.。
The blind can see.。
Who can see?。
God.。
So when Lezariah came,。
the Savior came,。
he was a miracle worker.。
But this miracle worker is not the purpose.。
This miracle worker took away the deaf who knew God.。
He wanted them to have a chance to hear God's voice,。
to know God.。
So the miracle worker itself is not the purpose.。
It's a method, a means to make people who are disabled,。
who have broken bones,。
can hear God's voice,。
can know God.。
So Isaiah mentioned。
the blind, deaf, blind, deaf,。
and mute can be healed.。
So the Bible just mentioned。
the blind can see, the mute can speak.。
So it is very concentrated to put these points。
to the people at that time.。
When they think of the Old and New Testament,。
they see Jesus doing this miracle,。
healing a blind man, a deaf man.。
Even he saw in Isaiah,。
the old man was set free,。
the blind was set free,。
a man tied up by a curse was set free.。
So Jesus Christ was set free for him.。
So when these three things come to mind,。
they immediately think of the things。
mentioned in the Old Testament,。
the things that will happen in the language of Isaiah.。
So their inferences are consistent.。
So in addition to knowing this Savior,。
they use the word "David" to describe.。
Because the Bible also mentions。
the Savior is David's descendant.。
In Samuel 2,。
Samuel tells David,。
"When your harvest is satisfied,。
you will be born again."。
That is, after David dies,。
there will be a descendant behind you。
to contact you.。
"This man will build a temple for me,。
and I will firmly establish his kingdom。
until forever."。
It is obvious that David's descendant。
who built the temple for him。
is not Solomon.。
Although King Solomon。
took David as king。
to build the temple for him,。
Solomon's kingdom is not eternal.。
So the kingdom is eternal.。
So it is not Solomon,。
but the future Savior,。
David's descendant.。
In Exodus 11,。
it is mentioned that。
this descendant is Isaiah's descendant.。
Isaiah is David's father.。
It is especially emphasized that。
this Savior has the spirit of Jehovah。
bound on him.。
This spirit is intelligent,。
resourceful, and capable.。
It is the spirit of Jehovah.。
In Jeremiah,。
it is especially mentioned。
that this Savior。
will build a temple for David.。
He must have the power of king.。
He is intelligent,。
and does justice on earth.。
This is the truth.。
It is especially mentioned that。
this Savior's name。
will be called Jehovah,。
our second.。
If we look at the Old Testament,。
we may not be able to explain。
what "our second" means.。
But if we explain it from the New Testament,。
we will understand much more.。
Why do we need to look at Paul's explanation?。
Because before Paul saw the resurrection of Christ,。
he was a Christian who persecuted the Christians.。
So he understood the thoughts of the Pharisees.。
He understood the thoughts of the Pharisees。
when they were saving the world.。
But when God came to him,。
he explained the Bible of salvation for us.。
What does this "second" mean?。
If we look at the Roman book of Paul,。
when he compared Adam and Christ,。
he explained this in great detail.。
He said,。
"Just as sin comes from a man into the world,。
death comes from sin."。
This sin will lead to death.。
This man is Adam.。
Then he said,。
Adam is the image of the man who will come in the future.。
The man who will come in the future is Christ.。
The Bible says that he is the second Adam.。
The first Adam committed a crime once,。
and everyone was convicted.。
Just as Christ, the second Adam,。
committed a crime once,。
and everyone was cleared and was saved.。
The first Adam committed a crime once,。
and the whole world was convicted.。
The devil is the authority in the air.。
The world is controlled by the devil.。
But when Christ came,。
he called those who were willing to accept Christ。
to be cleared and be saved.。
So he mentioned in verse 21,。
"Just as sin comes from a man into the world,。
death comes from sin."。
Just as the second Adam is in charge of the second Adam,。
who is this second Adam?。
It is Jesus Christ.。
So this second Adam is mentioned in the Old Testament.。
The second Adam is the son of David,。
the son of David,。
the son of David,。
Jesus Christ.。
So we see that the people at that time。
saw Jesus speaking in a blind,。
open-eyed, and mute way,。
and thought that this is the son of David.。
It is very normal, there is a basis.。
But the second Adam,。
the Pharisees said that。
Jesus Christ relied on the ability of the disciples.。
Who are the disciples?。
The disciples are the Jews who laughed at the devil's name.。
The meaning of disciples is the people of the eagles.。
They thought that a large group of eagles。
would stick to the disciples.。
The disciples are the people of the eagles.。
It is a very defiant and insulting name.。
But I read the whole Old Testament,。
I tried to find it,。
there is no passage in the Bible that mentions。
that it can be driven by the power of the devil.。
The whole teaching of the Old Testament。
mentions that it can be driven by the power of God.。
And the teachers of Judaism。
also use the power of God to drive the devil.。
So there is no record that。
it can be driven by the power of the devil.。
So when I was translating this scripture,。
I only know this part,。
that is, the almost baseless accusation。
is to slander Jesus.。
So the Pharisees,。
although they knew that they could see Jesus。
was able to drive the devil and heal the sick,。
they slandered Jesus。
and said that he was driven by the devil to heal the sick.。
After hearing this, Jesus used two answers。
to prove that what they said was not reasonable.。
The first answer was that。
if each person disputes with each other,。
he cannot be satisfied.。
The second answer was that。
if Jesus Christ relied on the devil to drive the devil,。
then who did the teachers of Judaism rely on to drive the devil?。
Because in Judaism,。
they also use the power of God to drive the devil.。
So these people will judge the Pharisees。
to slander Jesus.。
These two answers are actually very clear.。
But I want everyone to pay attention to the first sentence.。
Jesus knows their thoughts.。
This sentence is actually very important to us.。
So I don't want to explain it in the following sentence.。
Because I want to explain this sentence first.。
Jesus knows their thoughts.。
It is mentioned many times in the Bible.。
For example, Jesus mentioned in John 2。
that Jesus did a lot of miracles at that time.。
Many people believed in his miracles.。
But the Bible says that Jesus did not give himself to them。
because Jesus knew their hearts.。
If Jesus knew their thoughts,。
today Jesus Christ also knows your and my thoughts.。
What is special about this?。
This sentence reminds us。
not to stupidly think that God does not know what we think.。
Many times we know that God is everywhere.。
God's light shines into our inner heart.。
God's words tell us。
what is right, what is wrong, what is good, what is evil.。
But if we spend a lot of time。
hiding in a dark corner,。
in the final abyss, thinking that God does not know,。
we are like a fool.。
This is a great crisis and a great stupidity.。
So this sentence reminds us。
that Jesus Christ sees our inner heart.。
God knows our inner heart at any time.。
So we should not deceive ourselves。
to pretend to be blind, to pretend to be deaf, to pretend to be mute,。
to hide in a dark world.。
If we do not want God to be with us,。
no matter what we see,。
no matter what we think,。
it is not good.。
We must leave it immediately.。
We must try to worship our God every moment,。
to do His good deeds.。
If we do not want God to be with us,。
we must avoid it immediately.。
So I hope you will pay attention to this sentence.。
Jesus used these two answers。
to tell you that the accusation that Jesus。
was cured by the king of devils is not reasonable.。
Jesus then said two very important words.。
If I rely on God's inspiration,。
then God's kingdom will come to you.。
How can a man rob his things in the house of a priest?。
Unless he first binds the priest,。
otherwise he cannot rob his house.。
As I said, Paul explained the Old Testament.。
He said, "Our righteousness" is Jesus Christ.。
This is the second Adam.。
The first Adam committed a crime.。
He entered the world and people had to face death.。
The second Adam is Jesus Christ.。
Jesus Christ did not commit a crime.。
As a living sacrifice, as a sacrifice without sin,。
as a priest, he was atoned for us.。
It became two different eras.。
It is mentioned here that Jesus Christ relied on God's inspiration.。
This sentence is very important.。
Because when Jesus Christ came to the temple,。
he was restricted by many bodies.。
He was tested like you and me.。
But he relied on God's inspiration to face the test.。
So when he came out to serve,。
he was led by the Holy Spirit to the wilderness。
to face the test of the devil, the test of the truth.。
Jesus Christ also relied on God's inspiration to cure the disease and drive away the devil.。
He relied on God's inspiration to do the work of the Father.。
So Jesus Christ showed us how we should rely on God's inspiration to live our lives,。
face our difficulties, face our tests,。
and how to serve God, to do God's work.。
We should rely on the Holy Spirit.。
This sentence is very important.。
When the Holy Spirit came, the divine vision came.。
It means that in the first Adam's chapter,。
people were bound by the bondage of sin.。
Now Jesus Christ's coming is like entering the house of the priest.。
This priest is the house of the devil.。
In the house of the devil, everyone is bound by sin.。
When Jesus Christ came, he pointed out that he wanted to release this person.。
He wanted to rescue us from the house of the devil.。
This is the meaning of the second chapter, chapter 29.。
The divine vision has come.。
Because Jesus Christ has come, he has the ability to release us from sin.。
Because the divine vision can release us from sin.。
At first we are free.。
This is the meaning.。
In the last lecture,。
St. Matthew quoted the second chapter, chapter 40,。
where it is mentioned that the Father gave the Holy Spirit to the Savior.。
The Father gave the Holy Spirit to Jesus Christ,。
the man of the holy line,。
and passed the work to the outside world.。
This is the meaning.。
Then Jesus Christ also said,。
"Those who do not follow me are against me;。
those who do not repent with me are in division."。
It means that people cannot be neutral.。
They cannot be neutral in front of God.。
Not only cannot be neutral, but also have to participate actively.。
Because he said, "Those who do not follow me are against me."。
It means that either you are with me or not.。
There is no middle ground.。
We should not have the illusion that。
"I listen first, let's go to church and listen first."。
It's okay.。
If you do not repent with me,。
and do not decide to admit that Jesus Christ is your Savior,。
you are still a devil.。
Do not lie to yourself that you are not a devil.。
The Bible says it clearly.。
If you are not with God, you are with the devil.。
There is no middle ground.。
Do not think that you have a neutral position.。
There is no such thing.。
The second area is that Jesus Christ said personally,。
"Do not repent with me."。
It means that you do not participate in the service with me.。
It is a division of sin.。
So we cannot be neutral.。
Either with God or not.。
When we are with God, we have to be active,。
all in, to serve God, to worship God.。
This is the teaching of Jesus Christ.。
As the Columbus Preface says,。
"In the Adam, all people died."。
That is, we are two paths.。
In Christ, all people have to be resurrected.。
In the Adam, those who have a life are healed.。
But the Adam behind,。
that is, Jesus Christ,。
is the Spirit that is like life.。
Jesus Christ is life.。
The truth of life.。
He is the source of life.。
God like life.。
So who do we follow?。
Do we still stay in this life of death?。
Or do we follow Jesus Christ who can bring us back to life?。
Paul tells us that this is not a difficult choice.。
Jesus Christ, because these Pharisees。
knew that he could heal a hand of dry skin,。
and that Jesus Christ could heal the devil,。
not only did he not come to the Lord,。
but he also insulted Jesus by using the devil to heal the devil.。
So Jesus Christ said a very serious thing.。
He said, "All sins and sins of the world can be forgiven,。
but the life of sin is not forgiven.。
All that is said about the dry skin of man can be forgiven,。
but that which is said about the dry skin of the Holy Spirit。
is not forgiven in this life and the next."。
I believe many Christians are worried。
whether the things I have done will be in vain。
and I will not be forgiven in the future.。
First, I will explain this passage.。
This passage is the same as the 10th chapter of Matthew,。
which mentions two times that Jesus Christ performed a miracle.。
The first miracle was the hand of a dry-skinned man.。
They knew that Jesus could do it.。
They were waiting for him to do it on the day of rest,。
so they could sue him for violating the day of rest.。
They deliberately went to sue Jesus,。
and even wanted to murder Jesus.。
This time Jesus cured the sick and drove away the devil.。
They knew Jesus had the ability.。
They did not deny Jesus had the ability,。
but they did not admit that Jesus came from God.。
On the contrary, they even insulted Jesus。
and said that Jesus was driven away by the devil.。
We need to think about what is so important about the Holy Spirit.。
Why is it that the dry-skinned man,。
that is, the dry-skinned man Jesus Christ,。
cannot be the Holy Spirit?。
Let's look at the first chapter of the Bible.。
When Peter wrote this book,。
he wrote it to the Christians.。
He said, "Jesus Christ's disciples Peter wrote to Lazarus,。
who was chosen."。
It means that all Christians are chosen by God.。
It is not we who choose God, but God chooses us.。
So everyone understands that it is not us.。
We are originally dead in the midst of transgressions.。
When we are dead in the midst of transgressions,。
we have no response to God's words.。
It is God who awakens our souls,。
so that we can respond to God's words.。
So today, many people do not believe in God.。
It is normal for them to not respond to the Holy Spirit.。
Because their spirituality is dead.。
Just like our spirituality was dead on that day.。
If it were not for God's grace,。
through the Holy Spirit,。
our souls were awakened and responded to God's words,。
we would not have responded to God's words.。
It is mentioned here that。
which Christians are chosen by God?。
According to the precepts of the Father,。
"By the Holy Spirit, we are made holy."。
"Made holy" means to be divided into holy.。
"Divided into holy" means to be divided into holy.。
"By the Holy Spirit, we are made holy."。
"Divided into holy" means to be divided into holy.。
"And we are made holy by Christ, who shed His blood."。
It means that a person who is made holy by the Holy Spirit,。
will be made holy by Christ in his heart,。
and Christ will be the Lord of your life.。
"And we are made holy by Christ."。
What does it mean?。
In the Old Testament,。
the priest would pour the blood of sheep and cows。
on the people who were made holy.。
It means that the blood of these people covers your sin.。
Jesus Christ died on the cross,。
the blood of cows covered our sin.。
What does it mean?。
What kind of person are these Christians chosen by God?。
They are foreknown to God.。
They are made holy by the Holy Spirit.。
The Holy Spirit is the agent.。
It is the one who makes us holy.。
It means that it is the one who makes us holy.。
"And we are made holy by Christ, who shed His blood."。
It means that we are made holy by Christ.。
"And we are made holy by Christ, who shed His blood."。
It means that we accept the blood of Christ to cover our sin.。
It means that we admit our sin.。
"And we are made holy by Christ, who shed His blood."。
The blood of Christ is like a cloth of justice.。
A cloth of justice and dignity covers our sin.。
It is not that we are good,。
but the righteousness of Christ covers us.。
It means that we are made holy.。
So the most important part of the work of the Holy Spirit。
is to make our souls holy.。
In John's Gospel,。
when he explained in detail,。
the Holy Spirit comes to make the world to be guilty,。
to be doubtful, to be judged,。
to be self-conceited.。
When the Holy Spirit of truth comes,。
it will lead us to enter or understand all the truth.。
I mentioned before that。
when people are in sin,。
our values are completely crazy.。
We put the wealth of righteousness。
above the creation of God.。
We even do not admit the creation of our Lord.。
We completely reverse many values.。
The work of the Holy Spirit。
is to reorganize our crazy values.。
It is to make us to be guilty, to be doubtful, to be judged.。
It is to make us to know that we are guilty,。
and to know how to punish ourselves.。
When the Holy Spirit lets us know our sin,。
and renew our souls,。
it will slowly lead us to the Word of God。
to teach us to understand the truth.。
So if a person has not been reborn by the Holy Spirit,。
it is meaningless to transmit the Gospel to him.。
No, it is not meaningless.。
He has no response.。
And his no response is normal.。
Because his spiritual God has died.。
Unless the Holy Spirit leads people to transmit the Gospel,。
and the Holy Spirit has entered his heart,。
and reorganized his values,。
and led people to know the truth,。
then people can know God.。
So the Gospel today is to exorcise the Holy Spirit,。
to exorcise the Holy Spirit.。
It is not to say that when we Christians commit a sin,。
we will be in a state of guilt。
and we will not be able to repent.。
Because when you are still worried that you have committed a sin,。
and you will offend the Holy Spirit,。
it means that you still have a heart of reverence for God.。
I want to emphasize one point.。
When a Christian truly repents,。
in theory, the Holy Spirit is in his heart.。
Some Christians will think,。
if the Holy Spirit is in my heart,。
and I have committed a great sin,。
such as adultery,。
will the Holy Spirit commit a sin with me,。
and I will be a sinner to the Holy Spirit?。
Will the Holy Spirit be a sinner to me?。
If you think like this, it is wrong.。
If a Christian really commits a sin,。
it is you who commits a sin,。
not the Holy Spirit.。
The Holy Spirit is watching you commit a sin.。
The Holy Spirit is watching the Christian commit a sin with a sad look.。
The Holy Spirit will not commit a sin.。
So don't get it wrong.。
If we commit a sin, it is we who commit a sin,。
not the Holy Spirit.。
So you have to understand the first point.。
So if you are still worried about making mistakes,。
and you want to honor God,。
you don't have to worry about committing a sin.。
This is the background of the verse.。
The Pharisees knew that only God's power could cure the disease and drive away the devil.。
But they refused to admit it,。
and even insulted Jesus Christ.。
So the sin of the Holy Spirit and the sin of the dry food of the Holy Spirit。
has several conditions.。
First, they knew that God was there.。
They didn't do it unknowingly.。
Many people didn't believe it,。
and they said, "If you call Jesus, I will believe it."。
This is because they did it unknowingly.。
Think about it.。
A Christian who believes in Jesus Christ。
would not dare to call Jesus Christ.。
So for those who don't know God,。
they won't commit this sin.。
The content of this verse says that those who know God,。
deliberately refuse God,。
even deliberately humiliate God,。
refuse the guidance of the Holy Spirit to die in fear.。
These people are people who have been poisoned by the Holy Spirit,。
and have been dry food of the Holy Spirit.。
So if you are worried that after you believe in God,。
you will commit a great sin,。
and you will be punished for this sin,。
it should have nothing to do with the content of this verse.。
This verse says that those who know God,。
deliberately refuse God,。
even humiliate God,。
that is, humiliate the Holy Spirit.。
It is about these people.。
When a person deliberately refuses the guidance of the Holy Spirit,。
he will never understand the truth.。
Only the truth can liberate him.。
Let's look at the second passage of the Bible,。
the Bible of the tree and the fruit.。
Jesus Christ said,。
"You know that the tree is good, and the fruit is good;。
the tree is bad, and the fruit is bad."。
He is actually describing a person's inner self。
as a water tank.。
What we are holding may be good, may be evil.。
More or less,。
these good and evil will be expressed through our mouths.。
So we have to look at our inner self.。
What is our inner self?。
What is the human nature?。
It is directly expressed through our mouth.。
Some people say,。
"No, if I am very jealous of a person,。
but I deliberately praise the person with good words,。
is that okay?"。
That's wrong.。
Why?。
Because the praise you say with your mouth is hypocrisy.。
When you express it,。
although it is a praise of a person,。
in the eyes of God,。
you are saying falsehood.。
It's all evil.。
So the good words you express with your mouth are all evil.。
Because these are false, hypocritical words.。
In fact, this passage has a very important keyword,。
a word,。
which is the "spot of the poisonous snake."。
Jesus Christ even said they were evil people.。
Why?。
The devil went to test God.。
Now these hypocrites are going to test Jesus Christ.。
The word "spot of the poisonous snake"。
appeared in Matthew 3.。
The disciple Matthew。
recorded it in this passage.。
Jesus Christ said it.。
In Matthew 3,。
many people went to the river of Jordan。
to confess their sins to John,。
and wanted to be baptized by John the Baptist.。
John the Baptist saw many Pharisees。
and Sadducees coming to be baptized.。
He actually scolded them,。
"Spot of the poisonous snake,。
who told you to flee?。
You will be angry in the future.。
You will be punished and repent.。
Do not speak your mind.。
We have Abraham as our ancestor."。
What is the Bible talking about?。
It's a very special thing.。
At that time, the Pharisees and Sadducees。
went there to confess their sins and wanted to be baptized.。
But Jesus Christ did not baptize them,。
even scolded them.。
"Spot of the poisonous snake" is a very serious term.。
"Spot of the poisonous snake"。
means "spot of the devil's descendant".。
Why?。
Because Jesus Christ told them。
they did not repent.。
You have to get out of the fire.。
"The heart of repentance is within the fire."。
That is, they did not confess their sins,。
which does not mean repentance.。
Many people do today.。
Even in the church,。
we say we confess our sins and we are baptized,。
but we do not repent.。
What is confession?。
Confession is to tell people that I am guilty.。
Even the Jews who betrayed Jesus。
know that they are guilty.。
The Bible says clearly that they are guilty,。
but they did not repent,。
so they hanged themselves.。
True repentance has two meanings.。
The change of thoughts and thoughts。
is the change from sin to righteousness.。
It is not enough.。
It needs to add the change of life,。
the change of behavior.。
That is, the change of thoughts and behaviors。
from sin to righteousness is called repentance.。
Knowing sin does not mean repentance.。
The change of thoughts and behaviors。
from sin to righteousness is called repentance.。
If a person knows sin but does not repent,。
it is like the Jews who are now cursing the Pharisees.。
They have no life fruit.。
Because they have never repented in their hearts.。
So today's words also refer to Jesus Christ。
using the same words,。
"You are evil people."。
Because the devil went to test God,。
tested Jesus Christ.。
These people are also testing Jesus Christ.。
The same.。
Finally, let's look at the passage of the Gospel of the Last Supper.。
This passage is very important.。
I hope everyone will listen carefully。
to my explanation below.。
This passage is very special.。
There were several words in it.。
The Pharisees said to Jesus,。
"Teacher, we want to ask you to show us the gospel."。
I emphasize that the content of the gospel I want to talk about today。
is the gospel that can be seen with the eyes,。
not the gospel that changes a person's heart and mind。
and awakens the soul.。
These are all gospels,。
but this is the gospel that cannot be seen by the appearance.。
The gospel I am talking about today is the gospel that can be seen with the eyes.。
For example, the gospel that can be seen with the eyes。
of those who cure diseases, drive away the devil, and turn the water into wine.。
Jesus Christ then responded to their request。
from chapter 39 to 42.。
He asked them to show us the gospel.。
Let us see.。
Can you show us the gospel?。
It is to be seen.。
When I explain chapter 39 to 42,。
I have to explain three aspects first,。
so that I can explain this passage.。
This passage is not difficult to understand.。
It mentions that the first night of the day is three days and three nights。
in the fish's stomach, which is equivalent to the three days and three nights。
between the resurrection of Jesus Christ and death.。
It mentions the repentance of the Nile,。
and the queen of the south to hear Solomon's words.。
These are all things that we cannot understand.。
But there is a deep meaning behind it.。
I want to explain it to you today.。
Before I explain, I have to explain three things.。
The first is the word "sacrifice".。
The word "sacrifice" is not the word "miracle"。
in the original text and the Bible.。
It is not the word "sacrifice".。
It is actually a sign.。
If you look at the English Bible, it says "they asked for a sign".。
What is the sign?。
It is like a road sign.。
This road sign points to Satan.。
The sign is not the goal.。
The sign is only pointing to the goal.。
So if we see a sign in the kingdom of God,。
a road sign pointing to Satan,。
this road sign is not Satan.。
You are still in the kingdom of God.。
Do you understand?。
So let's not get the word wrong.。
Because the Chinese Bible also means "sacrifice".。
But the real English or original text。
is an indication or a sign.。
So you understand this first.。
The second is "trust" and "repentance".。
"Trust" and "repentance" are the same.。
It is one side of the coin.。
It cannot be separated.。
The word "trust" in the Bible is very clear.。
There is a range.。
The range of "trust" in the Bible。
is the words of God and God.。
God is the true nature.。
The words spoken by the true nature are the truth.。
So we trust the words of God and God.。
Today I believe in Jesus Christ and the teachings of Jesus Christ.。
This is the range.。
So "trust" is not about a student。
who is hardworking in studying and has confidence in his exam.。
The confidence of a person is not.。
The confidence in the Bible is the words of God and God.。
The characteristic of "trust" is。
we accept what we understand rationally.。
We trust God in the non-rational and super-rational range.。
For example, God teaches us to love and be kind.。
We can understand this rationally.。
If God says that Jesus Christ changed the water,。
this cannot be explained rationally.。
People's rationality cannot be understood.。
It is beyond the super-rational range.。
We accept it with confidence.。
And faith does not die.。
So we have confidence in God.。
This is the same as repentance.。
When we hear God's words,。
we change our thoughts and ideas and turn to the right way.。
When we turn to the right way,。
there are two aspects of repentance.。
The change of thoughts and ideas plus the change of life.。
Turn to the right way.。
The change of life is that we have faith.。
Because faith has action, it is death.。
So faith and repentance are two sides of a coin.。
We cannot separate them.。
So sometimes we talk about faith and sometimes repentance.。
They are the same thing.。
This is the second principle I want to clarify.。
The third principle is that we need to pay attention.。
I will explain it.。
In the Roman book of Paul,。
he explains how people can trust God.。
I call this the five principles of trust.。
What does he say?。
"But if no man believes him, how can he pray to him?。
If no man hears him, how can he believe him?。
If no man hears him, how can he preach him?。
If no man hears him, how can he preach him?"。
It seems difficult to understand the four principles.。
But if we read it from the end, it is very simple.。
First, if there is no man to preach, how can he preach?。
That is, the man to preach first,。
the man to preach first, then someone to preach.。
If someone preaches, someone hears.。
If someone hears, someone believes.。
If someone believes, someone prays to God.。
So if we look at it in reverse,。
we see the five principles of trust in God.。
God's people preach God's way.。
God's people listen to God's words to preach God's words.。
If someone hears,。
if it is a good word,。
a word of respect for God,。
they will believe.。
They will believe and pray to God,。
and return to God's side.。
God's people preach God's way.。
People can hear in the third stage,。
and then have the opportunity to believe in God and pray to God.。
This is the five principles of trust in God.。
In the Bible, in Romans 7, it is mentioned that。
"It is clear that the faith is from the one who hears,。
and the one who hears is directly from Christ."。
This is a very important principle of the Bible.。
A person believes in God.。
Faith comes from listening to God.。
You have to rely on God,。
understand God's words,。
in order to have faith.。
There can be no other way.。
If we look at these five principles,。
we should pay attention to the relationship between the topic I am talking about today.。
The topic today is "The relationship between the work of God and the truth."。
I want to talk about the relationship between the work of God and the truth.。
What is special about the five principles?。
If you can see,。
there is no work of God that can be seen.。
The work of God is not in this process.。
The work of God that can be seen is not in this process.。
There is no work of God.。
Some work of God is invisible.。
For example, a person hears,。
a person hears,。
and it is the Holy Spirit.。
When the heart of a person is poured into,。
it is the Holy Spirit that awakens the soul of the person.。
This is invisible.。
It is also a work of God.。
But what I am talking about today is not the work of God that changes in the heart.。
What I want to say is the work of God that can be seen with the eyes.。
Because these Fascists call Jesus Christ,。
"Show us the work of God,。
let us see the work of God that He wants to see with the eyes."。
Today you can see the five books of the Holy Spirit,。
the five books of the Holy Spirit,。
the work of God that does not need to be seen with the eyes.。
But this principle of the Bible,。
Paul wrote it very clearly.。
But it was not Paul who came up with it.。
When we look at Jesus Christ,。
we understand that the revelation of God in the Bible is very exquisite.。
When Jesus mentioned the story of Jonah,。
we look at the story of Jonah,。
we see the five books,。
which were already in the Old Testament.。
We look at the third chapter of Jonah,。
we see that the second time Jonah was brought to Jerusalem,。
he went to the city of Nile,。
and told the people there,。
"You see, God has shown Jonah."。
Jonah followed the words of Jonah,。
and went to the city of Nile.。
Then he entered the city and announced,。
"In forty days, the city of Nile will be reconquered."。
God showed Jonah,。
and Jonah listened to the message and preached it.。
The people heard it.。
What did they do?。
They came and believed in the Lord.。
They believed in the Lord and announced the ban on eating.。
From small to large, they had to wear a coat.。
It meant that they were in a dire situation.。
Not only that, they even had to bow down.。
Because they were worried that they would not be able to receive the baptism of Christ.。
They were worried that they would not be able to do it.。
They had to bow down and go to the cross.。
They pleaded with God,。
and then they had to turn away from their evil ways.。
That was repentance.。
So believing in the Lord and repentance are the same.。
They cannot be separated.。
So you can see that Jesus Christ told the story of Jonah.。
Not only in his three days in the fishing boat,。
but also in the whole process,。
the five steps of believing in God。
did not require any visible signs.。
It did not require any signs.。
If these foreigners can't see the signs,。
but they still believe in them,。
then these Jews who saw so many signs of Jesus Christ,。
and they still need to see a few more signs,。
but they still don't believe in them,。
is it worth judging?。
Can these foreigners accuse you?。
We, foreigners, can't see the visible signs,。
but we still believe.。
Jonah said,。
"You have to repent in 40 days."。
He did not allow you to repent,。
nor did he tell you to repent quickly.。
He did not say that.。
Those people also believed and repented,。
and left their evil ways to believe in God.。
So you can see that God showed people the way to spread the gospel,。
people heard the way,。
and believed in the way,。
and they pleaded with God.。
The five scriptures of faith,。
in the whole process,。
did not require any visible signs.。
This is one of the very important key points。
that Jesus Christ used in this story.。
We can look at many examples。
to prove that these five scriptures are correct.。
For example,。
John 4, Jesus Christ went to Samaria。
to talk to a woman by the lake.。
She told him how many husbands this woman had.。
Then they had a conversation.。
Jesus Christ disdained the truth,。
he said God is the spirit,。
so worship Him with your heart and be sincere in worshiping Him.。
This woman said to him,。
"I know that Nehemiah is called the origin of Christ.。
He will tell us all things.。
Jesus Christ said to her,。
"I am the one who is speaking to you."。
This is the first time Jesus Christ clearly told people。
that He is the Savior.。
He told a woman from a foreign country.。
A woman from a foreign country,。
who was probably not visible to others.。
After this woman talked to Jesus,。
she immediately went to other people in the city.。
Many people came out to hear Jesus talk.。
Jesus stayed for a few days.。
Then Jesus said,。
"If you believe in Jesus,。
there will be more people who will believe in Him."。
So you can see that Jesus Christ has been in Samaria for a few days.。
People believe in Him because of His way.。
There is no cure for the disease.。
Why?。
Because the Bible is very clear.。
"If you believe in Jesus, there will be more people who will believe in Him."。
"If you believe in Jesus, there will be more people who will believe in Him."。
This is what Jesus Christ said.。
So in the whole process of faith,。
in the people of Samaria,。
Jesus Christ did not see the miracle.。
Let's look at why Jesus Christ did not need a miracle.。
I can see at least two reasons.。
The first reason is Hebrews.。
Hebrews reminds us that we must pay attention to the way we hear。
so that we do not stray.。
What is this way?。
It is about salvation.。
It is about salvation.。
It is what Jesus Christ said.。
And the people who hear it are proved to be true.。
But at the same time,。
God uses the miracle of the Holy Spirit。
and the miraculous power of the Holy Spirit。
to witness with them.。
The function of the miracle is to witness.。
The miracle is not the way of God.。
You have to hear the way to believe.。
The miracle is to witness.。
Like the sign points to the person who performs the miracle。
comes from God.。
This is the function of the miracle.。
The sign points to the direction.。
This is the function.。
The second function is mentioned in Exodus 2.。
When the Savior came, the deaf could hear,。
and the blind could see.。
What does it mean to see?。
It means God.。
Jesus Christ did the miracle of healing the sick and driving away the evil.。
He took away the people who could not believe in God。
because of the disease and the restrictions on flesh.。
He asked them to hear God's words,。
to see God, to know God.。
So there are two functions.。
Jesus Christ did the miracle.。
First, he is the Savior of the language.。
The purpose of the miracle is to let people know God.。
So the most important thing is to hear God's way.。
But God also uses the miracle to witness.。
Pointing to the direction of God.。
So in simple terms,。
the miracle is like a witness。
to point to God's existence and His great power.。
Jesus Christ is the Savior of the language.。
Jesus came from God.。
Jesus Christ is the Son of God.。
Jesus Christ is the Holy Spirit.。
So the whole miracle is pointing to Jesus Christ, the Savior.。
So these miracles are not the purpose.。
The purpose is to point to the purpose.。
Let us know that Jesus Christ is the Savior.。
He asked us to hear God's way.。
So the miracle is a means, not a purpose.。
The purpose is to hear and believe.。
Because the faith comes from the way of hearing.。
And the way of hearing is directly from the words of Jesus Christ.。
Let's look at another positive example.。
When Nehemiah went to see Jesus,。
he said, "We"。
Pay attention to the word "We".。
Who is "We"?。
Nehemiah was a high-ranking Pharisee.。
He said "We" means。
not all Pharisees thought Jesus was a king.。
Not all Pharisees wanted to。
accuse Jesus of his pain.。
There were a group of very intellectual Pharisees。
who saw Jesus' miracles and knew that he came from God.。
Why?。
He said, "We"。
Not only him, but also "We"。
"know that you are a teacher from God.。
Because the miracles you do。
are not possible without God's presence."。
So they saw the miracles.。
Like a sign, it means you must come from God.。
This is the function of miracles.。
Miracles are not the purpose.。
This is the purpose of the miracles.。
Jesus Christ came from God.。
When this happened,。
they heard Jesus' truth.。
So Jesus answered,。
"I tell you the truth.。
If man does not be reborn, he will not see God."。
This is a very important truth.。
Then in chapter 16,。
"God loves the world, and even places his own son。
at his door.。
If he believes in him, he will not perish,。
but will be reborn."。
So you see, miracles are his function.。
He pointed to Christ,。
came from God.。
Then Jesus showed the truth.。
People believed it.。
This is one of the positive examples.。
There is also a counter-example.。
In John 2,。
Jesus performed many miracles.。
Many people saw the miracles and believed in his name.。
But Jesus did not deliver himself to them,。
because he knew what was in the hearts of the people.。
Jesus knew the hearts of people.。
He saw the hearts of people.。
What is the problem with these people?。
They saw and believed.。
If you look at these five verses,。
what is the problem?。
"If you see the miracles, believe in him, and you will know him."。
They did not hear it.。
Faith comes from hearing.。
The "hearing" is what Jesus said.。
So if some people see the miracles and believe,。
what do they believe in?。
There is no basis.。
Our faith is in the "hearing" of God,。
not in the miracles.。
So don't get it wrong.。
Don't be too excited about miracles.。
Don't be too obsessed with miracles.。
That is not what we want to see.。
Many people believe in God.。
Whether it is the women of Samaria,。
or other villagers,。
they believe in Jesus' faith.。
Even the people of Mexico and Guatemala,。
they believe in God's faith.。
So those who believe in God's faith,。
but do not believe in God's faith,。
are meaningless.。
Jesus Christ does not teach them.。
Because Jesus Christ knows that they do not have God's faith in their hearts.。
Back to today's scripture,。
the Pharisees asked Jesus to show them the miracles.。
He had already seen so many miracles.。
One after another,。
from healing to healing.。
He saw the power of God in the material world,。
and also saw the power of God in the spiritual world.。
So Jesus Christ's power is getting stronger.。
They do not believe.。
They insult Jesus by calling him the "Devil King".。
Even if Jesus Christ was healing the sick and chasing the devil on the Sabbath,。
they use this excuse to kill Jesus.。
Why?。
We see the answer in chapter 13.。
Because there is an answer in John 8.。
Jesus Christ said,。
"I know that you are descendants of Abel,。
and you want to kill me,。
because your hearts are not able to stand my wrath."。
"You are descendants of Abel"。
This sentence has just appeared.。
I have seen it before.。
"Descendants of Abel" emphasizes the pride of their spiritual life.。
We have seen it today.。
I remember I talked to a couple about faith.。
They said they were Christians.。
I asked them how to believe in God.。
They gave a very strange answer.。
They said, "We are Christians because。
I was baptized by a very famous pastor in a church with more than 1,000 members."。
"So we are Christians."。
"It has nothing to do with religion."。
This is the pride of the spiritual life.。
The Pharisees also have this pride.。
"But you want to kill me because your hearts are not able to stand my wrath."。
After hearing this, they can't accept Jesus Christ's wrath.。
Because for the Pharisees,。
for those who want to target Jesus,。
Jesus Christ's existence is affecting their authority,。
their status,。
and even their interests.。
Why do I say this?。
When Jesus Christ entered Jerusalem to be baptized,。
the whole structure of the church was like a company.。
There were a lot of businesses,。
such as buying and selling beef and exchanging money.。
A large business.。
Jesus Christ actually went there to cause trouble.。
He said they were doing business and destroyed the tables.。
Why did he do business?。
When Jesus Christ was baptized,。
thousands of people followed him.。
Jesus Christ was not baptized in Jerusalem.。
He was baptized outside,。
at the lake.。
Not at the religious center in Jerusalem.。
As a teacher of the Bible,。
people did not follow him, but followed Jesus.。
So it affected their status and authority.。
But not all of them.。
As I said,。
the Pharisees and some of the intellectuals。
actually saw that Jesus Christ was a faithful man.。
But these people wanted to kill Jesus.。
It's outrageous.。
Even if you say you want to kill Jesus,。
you don't have to kill him.。
They actually wanted to kill him with the intention of poisoning him.。
Because they could not tolerate the Holy Spirit.。
If we look at the next chapter,。
chapter 13,。
Matthew tells the story of Jesus' execution.。
After listening to the five verses,。
before he was crucified,。
it was important to know which kind of soil he was on.。
Which kind of soil represents the heart of man,。
how he respects God's words.。
So in the Bible,。
it mentions the roadside, the shallow soil, the steep, the good soil.。
Roadside refers to the words of the apostles,。
thrown on the roadside, and to be trampled a few more times.。
Many people today are like this.。
Not only to blame the Christians for spreading the gospel,。
but also to insult and mock Jesus Christ.。
Some of them are shallow soils,。
which are pleasant to hear,。
but soon they will no longer be heard.。
Some soils are deep.。
They feel it's good to try to be a Christian,。
but they find that the world is better,。
and the good soil is more attractive.。
They no longer go to the roadside.。
The good soil is the small part.。
Jesus Christ said that there are few people who have enough.。
It is the words of those who have heard God's words,。
respect God's words,。
and change God's words to change their lives.。
Those are the good soils.。
So you see, these legal people are on the roadside.。
They are on the road of money and God.。
And the legal people who came to the bottom,。
in the end, are the good soil of the minority.。
They believe in God.。
So we go back to the previous passage,。
we see that Jesus knows their hearts.。
They want to see some more visible signs.。
In fact, they will not believe.。
Let's think about the Great Christian Egypt of Moses.。
They saw the Red Sea separated.。
They walked through the Red Sea in their own dry sea bed.。
They went to the opposite side of the Red Sea,。
there was nothing to eat.。
God gave them spicy food.。
They see the signs every day,。
but they do not believe in the signs.。
So the signs do not help people to believe in God.。
It is the way of God that can make people believe in God.。
Faith comes from hearing,。
from God's words, not from seeing the signs.。
So they saw the Red Sea separated.。
Every day they saw God throwing food to them in heaven.。
They do not believe in the signs.。
So we should not be vain in pursuing the signs.。
We should work hard to study God's words,。
to know God's words.。
This is the truth.。
So when Jesus answered them,。
he said, "The generation of evil and disorder,。
seek God's work."。
Evil and disorder means not to believe.。
Why do I use this sentence?。
In the history of the whole of Israel,。
Solomon was a turning point.。
Solomon did a big evil thing,。
that is, he made many people。
into the hands of foreign traitors,。
and at the same time,。
he brought the false idol of the foreign country to Israel.。
The king of Israel,。
whether it is the Kingdom of Israel in the north。
or the Kingdom of Judah in the south,。
committed the sin of worshiping idols.。
God wanted these two kingdoms to be destroyed.。
This is the grace of God.。
God wanted them to be destroyed,。
and they were painfully tortured.。
Since then, Israel has not worshipped idols.。
Since they did not worship idols,。
why did they say they did not believe?。
It is because they did not believe in the heart of Israel.。
Because they did not put God in the center of their hearts.。
These people of Israel。
only have the Chinese people。
and the Pharisees.。
They only have the appearance of religion。
and have no reality of religion.。
They are hypocrites.。
They do not believe in God.。
So Jesus saw their hearts and said,。
"You people of this generation are seeking a miracle."。
He said, "There is only one miracle for you.。
Except for the prophet Jonah,。
how did Jonah survive three days and three nights。
in the fish's stomach?。
The same prophet had to stay in the ground for three days and three nights.。
This means that Jesus Christ died,。
was buried and resurrected.。
In the book of Luke,。
there is one more sentence.。
He said, "How did Jonah make a miracle for you people?"。
The miracle should also be indicated.。
People should be like this。
to be a guidance for the people of this generation.。
What does this mean?。
Jonah actually foretold Jesus Christ.。
When Jonah heard the call of God。
to come to Jerusalem,。
the place in northeast Israel at that time,。
he took a boat to the west.。
He wanted to take a boat to。
Spain, which was thousands of miles away.。
When he was on the boat,。
God let the wind and the waves.。
Everyone at that time was afraid.。
Everyone prayed to their own God.。
Jonah told them, "You can throw me into the sea."。
He sacrificed himself to calm God's anger.。
"Let others be saved."。
This is what Jonah did at that time.。
This is to foretell Jesus Christ。
to use his own life。
to die on the cross for sinners。
to atone for sins and to calm God's anger.。
Jonah stayed in the boat for three days and three nights。
to foretell Jesus Christ's resurrection.。
This is the great power of the witness God.。
That's what it means.。
Why did Jesus Christ say。
"I will make you a miracle"?。
Because we see Jesus continue to do miracles.。
But this sentence is actually meaningful.。
Jesus Christ's miracles。
have nothing to do with these unbelievers.。
For example, he resurrected the dead from the cross.。
These are not related to these people.。
The only one related to these people。
is Jesus Christ's resurrection.。
This is the ultimate miracle.。
Jesus Christ resurrected on the third day after his death.。
If they don't believe this, they can't be saved.。
So we look at Jesus' answer.。
In the trial, the Nile people。
had to stand up and convict the people of this generation.。
Because the Nile people heard the voice,。
they heard the voice of Jonah.。
The word "repentance" and "belief" are the same.。
So Jesus' response。
points to the five books of the Book of Ecclesiastes.。
These people had never seen the miracles of the eyes.。
They believed when they heard the voice.。
The Pharisees and many Jews at that time。
saw a lot of miracles, but they didn't believe.。
So when these foreigners were judged,。
they could come out and accuse you.。
We foreigners have never seen miracles, but we believe.。
You see so many miracles,。
and the Savior is in front of you,。
you don't believe.。
So you have nothing to say.。
So simply speaking,。
the miracles and the truth。
I am talking about the miracles of the eyes。
have nothing to do with faith.。
The five books of the true faith。
do not need the miracles of the eyes.。
The function of miracles is a direction.。
The direction of Jesus Christ is this salvation.。
So faith comes from hearing,。
not from seeing God.。
The direction of hearing is the words of Christ.。
And we know the words of Christ,。
know the truth,。
the truth will make us free.。
The story of King Sibelius is the same.。
King Sibelius went to the south。
to see King Solomon.。
He asked a lot of questions,。
Solomon answered all his questions.。
So Solomon did a whole-way job.。
After King Solomon heard the questions,。
he said, "If you have wisdom, you will be blessed."。
Then he said, "Your God is worthy of praise."。
He heard someone preaching,。
King Solomon listened and believed.。
Then King Solomon gave him a lot of gifts。
and returned to his country.。
We generally believe that。
when King Solomon returned to Ethiopia,。
he brought the Jews back to Ethiopia.。
Because after 1000 years,。
we know that。
in the book of Exodus,。
there is a priest named Ezechias.。
At that time, this priest served。
under King Ezechias,。
the head of the rich family of King Gama.。
He went to Jerusalem to worship.。
He was a foreigner who believed in the Jews.。
It was recorded that。
he was reading the book of Ezekias in his car.。
He was holding a book of Ezechias.。
The book of Ezechias said that。
the priest Ezechias was being killed,。
he was being judged unjustly,。
and he was being killed.。
Philip explained the gospel。
and the gospel related to Jesus Christ.。
So we believe that。
the Queen of Sheba believed in the God of Solomon。
and brought the Jewish doctrine。
to Ethiopia.。
It is worth noting that。
this priest was holding a book of Ezechias.。
The Bible at that time was handwritten,。
very expensive.。
He had a lot of capital.。
He bought a book to read.。
So I hope everyone will buy a good,。
well-known Bible。
to study the word of God.。
Finally, we compare the gospel of Jesus Christ.。
He compared it with Jesus Christ with the book of Ezekias.。
The book of Ezekias was a prophet.。
Jesus was a greater prophet,。
a true body.。
But the book of Ezekias did not perform a miracle.。
It just said that you will be destroyed.。
He did not even mention them repenting.。
But all the foreigners in the city of Lemnipolis。
repented and believed in God.。
Instead, Jesus Christ himself appeared。
and preached the gospel to the Jews.。
He performed many miracles.。
But most Jews did not believe.。
Solomon and Jesus were kings.。
But Jesus was the eternal king,。
the son of God.。
The prophet of the king of Solomon and the king of Zebalia。
did not see any miracles.。
Zebalia, as a foreigner,。
also believed in God.。
But many Jews。
did not repent and believe in Jesus.。
So Jesus said that。
this generation of unbelievers will seek God's miracles.。
So we should not be obsessed with the miracle of God's miracles.。
Because faith comes from hearing.。
Instead, we should work hard to study the Bible,。
understand the Bible, and spread the Bible.。
So that more people can hear and believe。
and pray to God.。
Today, I will summarize the three points of the Bible.。
The first point is that。
Jesus Christ knows our thoughts and ideas.。
So we should always be vigilant and reverent to God.。
Do not be ignorant and think that God does not know what we are doing.。
We can't hide.。
The light of God is always in us.。
The light of God is always in our hearts.。
We are just deliberately blind, deliberately deaf, deliberately dumb。
to escape God.。
If we still want to keep some dark places in our hearts,。
God knows.。
Do not deceive yourself.。
Jesus Christ is the Lord of the material world and the spiritual world.。
No matter what disease, ghosts, and evangelization,。
He is the Lord of the material world and the spiritual world.。
And the Lord of God has come to us.。
When we accept Jesus Christ as our Lord,。
the Lord of God is already in our hearts.。
But the question is,。
does our heart accept the words of Jesus Christ?。
Do we listen to a part and not listen to a part?。
Or is it a respectful and respectful teaching of God?。
The second is to remove the fruit from the tree and the fruit from the seed.。
That is, our life must change and our heart must be reconciled with our repentance.。
Do not be a false Christian.。
Because being a false Christian is the most stupid.。
Rather than being a Christian who wants to be a false Christian in the church,。
why not not go to church?。
Because if you don't go to church, you will end up in hell.。
But if you live a false Christian life in the church,。
you will end up in hell.。
This is the stupidest thing.。
So we should not deceive God.。
Because God is unbecoming.。
Believe in God and repent and confess your sins.。
Really ask God to help us to go through a holy trial and live a life that is in harmony with God.。
Do not be a slave to God.。
Finally, the work of God is a direction, not a goal.。
It is the direction of Jesus Christ's holiness,。
so that people can hear God's words and see God's great power.。
So we should not be obsessed with the work of God.。
Also, do not think that the work of God is the foundation of faith.。
The work of God is not the foundation of faith.。
It is not the foundation of faith.。
Faith comes from the way of hearing,。
and the way of hearing comes from the words of Jesus Christ.。
So when Jesus Christ talked about his sign of the holy meal,。
he said, "In the future, you have to eat my flesh and drink my blood."。
Many people think that this is a difficult path.。
Maybe today I have talked for a long time,。
some people think that Professor Hsu's talk is very long and difficult to understand.。
Jesus Christ asked the disciples,。
"Are you not leaving yet?"。
The disciples followed Jesus Christ.。
Jesus Christ talked about a deeper path,。
and they all left.。
Jesus Christ asked them,。
"Are you not leaving yet?"。
Simon Peter answered,。
"Lord, you have eternal life.。
Who are we to follow?。
We have believed and know that you are the Holy One of God."。
So Simon Peter stayed with Jesus.。
It is not because he thought, "Lord, you can do the work of God.。
Lord, you can feed thousands of people.。
Lord, you can do the work of God and help us to recover."。
Simon Peter answered correctly,。
"Lord, you have eternal life.。
Who are we to follow?。
It is not because he thought, "Lord, you can do the work of God.。
Who are we to follow?"。
So we are very clear about the teachings of the Bible.。
"Lord, you have eternal life.。
Who are we to follow?"。
I will share with you today.。
I hope you understand the relationship between the work of God and truth.。
The work of God helps people to point to the truth,。
and it has the function of testimony.。
But the work of God is not the truth itself.。
Faith comes from the hearing,。
and the hearing comes from the words of Jesus Christ.。
So I hope everyone will read the Bible carefully today,。
and understand the words of God,。
especially the teachings of Jesus Christ.。
I hope the words of God will bless you.。
Thank you.。
[END]。
[END]。
[END]。
[END]。
[END]。
[END]。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
