Good morning, everyone.。
A while ago, a colleague, who is actually half my boss, retired.。
He gave me a book titled "It is OK to be Average".。
It means, "It's OK to be average".。
If your boss gave you a book like this, what would you think?。
At first, I was wondering why there was a book like this.。
Because in university, you are usually told to be outstanding, to be number one, to get a certain award.。
But why did he give me a book titled "It is OK to be Average"?。
Does that mean I am really average?。
I opened the book and found it quite interesting.。
It was written by an old Chinese from Singapore,。
telling his life experience.。
He told a story that we are all familiar with,。
a story about a ugly duckling.。
Do you remember the story about the ugly duckling?。
Maybe some of you who are older would have heard of it.。
He said that there was a small duckling,。
black, very ugly.。
After it was born, its parents went missing.。
Then, it was very sad to see a group of white ducklings.。
Its mother took the ducklings with her and walked along.。
It followed the ducklings, hoping to find a mate.。
But it was ugly, so it was always laughed at.。
"Why are you so ugly? Everyone else is white, but you are black and ugly."。
It was very sad and cried, and complained,。
"Why am I so ugly?"。
Finally, as it grew up, it realized that it was a swan.。
It was more beautiful than the other ducks,。
and it could fly higher than them.。
It was a beautiful black swan,。
although it was a black swan.。
We are most afraid of white swans,。
but we were afraid of black swans.。
This story is very simple.。
It tells us that sometimes we feel that we are worse than others.。
We feel that we are not very special,。
or that we do not have special talents,。
or that we are not better than others.。
But how does God see us?。
Or what kind of people does God want to use?。
Are all the people He wants to use smart and capable?。
Do they all have a lot of degrees, books, and talents?。
Do they all have power and money?。
I remember the first chapter of the Bible in the Old Testament.。
It says, "Have you ever thought that among you people who are in the dream,。
there are not many people who are wise,。
who have a good eye for the flesh?"。
It means that you are not particularly smart.。
How many disciples have received the Bell of the Lord?。
I don't think there are many.。
It says, "There are not many people who are wise,。
who have power,。
who have money,。
and who are not very noble."。
But God chose these people to serve Him.。
This is the topic I will talk about today.。
It is okay to be an ordinary Christian.。
It may not be a bad thing to be an ordinary Christian.。
The Bible reminds us that God does not have to choose the best,。
or at least in the eyes of man,。
He can choose the best,。
the one with the most talents, the one with the most degrees,。
or the one who was born into a very dark family.。
God does not have to choose such people to serve Him.。
Instead, He chose ordinary people.。
What for?。
Here, He says a very special reason.。
He says, "So that you will not boast,。
that because I am very good,。
I can do these things for God.。
You cannot boast that because I am very good,。
I have read a lot of books,。
so I have such achievements,。
I can be a leader."。
Let's look at some examples in the Bible.。
Before talking about the examples,。
how do we define what is "ordinary"?。
What is "not outstanding"?。
Maybe in our eyes, ordinary people are those who are not famous,。
who do not have much degrees,。
who do not have many English letters in their names.。
Many people have written a lot of things,。
from middle school to university,。
and they have written a lot of English letters.。
The more letters they have, the better they are.。
God does not think these things are important.。
He says, "In God's perspective,。
availability matters more than ability."。
Does that mean you are really prepared to be used?。
Availability, is it that you can respond at any time,。
and respond at any time,。
is more important than your ability?。
Availability is more important than ability.。
I want to share with you a few simple,。
very obvious examples.。
When Moses was called by God on Mount Sinai,。
to lead hundreds of thousands of Israelites out of Egypt,。
what was Moses' first reaction?。
He said, "God, have you ever thought that。
I am actually a very talkative person?。
I am even a bit of a talker.。
How can I have the ability to convince Pharaoh。
to release hundreds of thousands of Israelites?。
How can I use my ability to convince those people。
to follow me into the desert,。
so that they may not be able to eat,。
live a good life,。
or even die in the wilderness?"。
God said, "Actually, I don't need you to be very talkative.。
What do you have?。
You have the crutch in your hand.。
This is what I am giving you.。
You can use this crutch。
to carry the words I am giving you."。
Then you can do it.。
Moses led the Israelites out of Egypt。
in the next 40 years.。
He was not a very good person.。
He was like the Egyptian prince in his cartoons.。
He was very handsome and good at fighting.。
But he was not a politician.。
He was not a very talkative person either.。
The second example is David.。
You may have seen this statue in Italy.。
He was very handsome with a little curly hair.。
He was very big.。
He was a boy.。
He was holding a rope in his hand.。
The rope was wrapped around a stone ball.。
It was said that David used a small stone。
to defeat Goliath.。
But when he was about to go to war,。
he said to himself,。
"When I go to war with the Phoenicians,。
people will laugh at me.。
Even his father will laugh at him.。
What's wrong with you?。
You are not a soldier.。
You don't know how to fight.。
You are so small.。
You are not a person who can fight with a giant.。
Even his father thought,。
"You are just a little boy.。
How can you go to war?"。
He didn't think he was so talented.。
As a result, he defeated a giant with a small stone.。
Of course, there are many explanations。
as to why a giant was defeated by a small stone.。
There is a very strange explanation in medicine.。
If you haven't heard it, I'll tell you now.。
In medicine, there is a symptom called "Giant Syndrome".。
It is caused by a huge amount of hormones。
in the lower brain.。
The people there are very big.。
Although they are very big,。
they can't fight.。
Because their muscles are actually broken.。
They are not really strong.。
They can't fight.。
In addition, there is a thing in the lower brain.。
They look at things in a dreamy way.。
They see two shadows.。
So when they see a small stone flying over,。
they can't avoid it.。
They can't avoid it.。
They can't avoid it.。
They can't avoid it.。
This is a joke in medicine.。
No matter what,。
God used a child who was very blind.。
A boy with a wooden sheep.。
He used a very blind weapon。
to defeat a giant of Phileas.。
This is not the most capable and wisest choice in the world.。
No.。
It is a choice that everyone thinks is impossible.。
What is closer is that。
Jesus' mother, Maria,。
was a person who,。
when the angel told her,。
"You will be pregnant。
and become the mother of the Savior."。
She asked, "Who am I?"。
"I am just a woman, a woman."。
"I just cook at home."。
"I don't know how to do anything."。
"I am just a housewife."。
Today, many of our sisters may say,。
"I just cook. I just take care of the kids."。
"How can I do such a great thing?"。
God chose a woman who had no degree。
to become Jesus' mother.。
What is her greatest advantage?。
She said, "If you choose me,。
I am willing to do this."。
She was accepting,。
convincing, and willing.。
God made her。
a baby girl。
who was born from her own womb.。
Isn't this a wonderful choice?。
But I think another wonderful thing is。
Jesus himself with the twelve disciples.。
None of them。
looked very good in the eyes of people,。
especially those with talent.。
Yes, there was a "tax collector".。
He was not well-liked by people.。
Others were fishermen,。
farmers,。
and even those who were protesting。
in the streets of the opposition parties.。
Jesus chose such people。
as his disciples.。
None of them had a degree,。
not a Ph.D.。
Although Paul was the most wise。
and learned man,。
he was a Roman.。
He read a lot of Roman philosophy and law.。
But he was the one。
who wrote the Bible.。
God chose those。
who were not particularly wise.。
So all these examples。
show that God did not choose。
the best among the people in the Bible.。
Of course, there are some who are not the same.。
For example, Daniel was a handsome and smart man.。
This is a little different.。
Or even as I said,。
Paul was a very learned man.。
But most of them were not chosen。
because they were not wise,。
not of a high status,。
not of special ability.。
They were chosen to be。
the ones who thought they were smart.。
He chose the wise people。
to be the ones who were wise.。
He chose the weak people。
to be the ones who were strong.。
When I did not do well in my previous exams,。
I liked to watch this Bible.。
I told the first one,。
"You are not very good.。
God chose me.。
Maybe you are not very good."。
Are we satisfied today。
with our lack of wisdom and ability?。
And then we continue to make。
an ordinary faith.。
And then every week,。
we sing a few songs,。
and then we eat a few things.。
And then we go back to our normal life.。
We are very happy.。
We are an ordinary believer.。
Is this our life?。
Well, I believe God。
in the examples we saw just now,。
showed us one thing.。
You can be a very ordinary person.。
But God can turn you。
into an extraordinary leader.。
He can make you。
an extraordinary believer.。
As long as you wait until that day,。
and you are ready to wait。
until that day comes,。
how can we go from being ordinary。
to being extraordinary?。
How can we be used by God?。
Today, because I don't have enough time,。
there are many lights here。
in English.。
But the Bible,。
as the brother just translated it for me,。
is in Chinese.。
It's really good.。
There are seven things。
you can prepare。
to make your ordinary。
become extraordinary。
in God.。
First,。
you have to dedicate your heart to God.。
The Bible says we should。
devote our heart, our mind, and our spirit。
to God who loves you.。
You have to love Him.。
You have to dedicate your heart to Him.。
I am willing to do so.。
Just like a lover,。
a wife and a husband,。
I am willing to do whatever you ask me to do.。
I will devote my heart, my spirit, and my spirit。
to love Him.。
And every day, through our reading the Bible,。
our prayer,。
it's like talking to your lover.。
Such a close relationship.。
One day,。
God will show us.。
After this relationship,。
you will be like。
a prophet.。
When he sees an image,。
God finally appears before him.。
The highest Jehovah。
sits high on the temple.。
His clothes are under the bed.。
The temple is covered with angels and salafis。
singing,。
"Glory, glory, glory to the Jehovah of the angels."。
When he sees such an image,。
he was a normal person.。
God suddenly said,。
"Who can I show my love to?。
Who is willing to go for me?"。
He immediately said,。
"I am here. Please show me your love."。
He was ready.。
He was willing to make himself available.。
He was willing to show himself.。
This is a very important...。
But you must have a close relationship with God。
before you say this.。
"I am willing to do this for you.。
Please show me your love."。
Not everyone can say that.。
It must be someone you love very much.。
Your wife.。
You love her very much.。
What does she ask you to do?。
You say, "I am willing. Please show me your love."。
How many husbands say,。
"You and your wife ask me to show you my love."。
"You ask me to go shopping."。
"You ask me to show you my love."。
"You ask me to take my children to this and that."。
"You ask me to show you my love."。
We rarely say that.。
But if you really love that person,。
you are willing to do what you are willing to。
for him, for your wife, for your children.。
Besides these two things,。
the third thing is to pay attention to...。
Even if you don't have any special skills,。
you should look at what you have in your hands。
that can be used by God.。
It's like Moses.。
He didn't have anything. He only had a stick.。
He had a spear.。
But that spear was very powerful.。
It could turn into a snake.。
The snake could turn into a spear.。
And when it hit the water,。
it could separate the sea.。
The Red Sea was split in half。
and let people cross it.。
The things in his hands were not very special.。
But they were all tools.。
David's spear was smaller.。
It had a stone and a rope.。
But that was also something that could be used by God.。
As long as he is willing to use you,。
you are willing to follow.。
Today, some of us have a group of sisters。
who sang very well.。
But you may say, "I don't have that voice."。
"I can hear someone singing very well."。
"Our voices are very different."。
No. You are willing to use your voice.。
Or you are willing to use your words.。
You may speak a few languages.。
Then you may be used by God.。
The Chaozhou dialect, Hakka dialect,。
and Cantonese,。
you may be used by God.。
Do you know what's in your hands?。
It may not be a very powerful weapon.。
But when God wants to use you,。
it becomes something that can be used.。
The Bible says, "Those who are faithful in small things。
will be faithful in great things."。
Jesus said, "When I chose people,。
I chose those who were faithful in small things."。
When you cook, are you faithful?。
When you buy food, are you not being discouraged?。
When I was a doctor,。
I thought, "I have seen such a normal disease."。
I have seen a patient in such a small clinic.。
But are you faithful in small things?。
If so, God may put you in a big thing one day。
to show His ability to do great things.。
So in our small things every day,。
we must be faithful,。
and be faithful to God.。
Sometimes God will transform you,。
prepare you,。
so that you are more suitable for great things.。
These kinds of training are usually done。
when you are most unhappy.。
I will tell you an example later.。
After I was a doctor for three years,。
I decided to leave my position。
and go to Canada to do a doctorate.。
But I was not selected or recruited to Harvard。
to be a Canadian.。
I went to a place called Calgary,。
where I did a PhD.。
I asked myself,。
"What did I do wrong?。
Why was I selected to be trained。
in such a small and unpopular place?"。
In such a small place,。
I trained myself how to live independently,。
how to think independently,。
and not necessarily follow the boss' instructions.。
I trained myself to live in a cold,。
and unpopular environment.。
Often, when we think that life is a low,。
and encountering a lot of difficulties,。
God is preparing you,。
preparing you to do something big.。
God is preparing you to live a life。
where you can be a living testimony.。
God did not choose us because we have a shirt,。
but because our daily life is like a document。
that proves that we are loyal to Him.。
Although it is a small thing,。
we are loyal to Him.。
The gentleman behind me is very good.。
Every time I turn around,。
the screen will turn to show me。
what I wrote.。
Thank you.。
Lastly,。
the seventh thing to note and prepare is。
that you must still have a humble heart.。
A humble heart.。
It is a very easy mistake.。
When you have a little bit of success,。
you will think, "I can do it."。
When you reach the first level,。
you will realize that you are not bad.。
But this is the time when we fall easily。
because we lack humility.。
Lack of humility is because we know。
that we can stand still today。
because we are like a grapevine。
that is tied to a branch.。
Jesus said that if the grapevine is not tied to the tree,。
you will not be able to bear fruit.。
You will not be able to continue to play your role.。
So be humble and...。
I must not turn my face to you.。
Be humble and dependent.。
He said that you must rely on Him。
and be humble.。
The seven things...。
You don't remember which seven things I mentioned.。
Usually, we only mention two things.。
What is the first thing?。
The first thing is that you must love Him。
with all your heart and all your mind.。
Then you must be willing to be called.。
Like Isaiah,。
"Lord, I am in this place. Please show me."。
Then you must see what you have。
and what you can use.。
Then you must be loyal in small things.。
When you are in trouble,。
you must accept His training and His teaching.。
Finally, you must use your daily life。
as a witness。
and become your true friend.。
Finally, when you have a little bit of success,。
you must continue to be humble。
and depend on Him.。
You must be humble.。
This is what I think.。
How can you make your ordinary life。
become extraordinary?。
Today, I want to share with you。
a photo that I haven't shown to anyone for a long time.。
This is me.。
I grew up in an ordinary family.。
The one sitting in the middle is me.。
The one holding me is my younger brother。
and my cousin.。
Our family is not a rich family.。
It is definitely not a rich family.。
My grandfather was a car repairman.。
He was a sprayer.。
He opened a small workshop in Wanchai, Hong Kong.。
My mother was a small employee in a bank.。
It is strange that she worked in a big bank.。
There is a big bank in Hong Kong, UOB.。
She was a small employee.。
She only studied until she graduated from primary school.。
My father was a shopkeeper。
who sold glasses.。
He was a very unremarkable person.。
I still remember when I was young,。
I lived in Wanchai.。
I could smell the smell of car spray.。
In Wanchai, Lohkak,。
there were many bars.。
The US military kept going to Vietnam to fight.。
After 6 weeks of fighting,。
he would come to Hong Kong and drink a big glass of wine in Wanchai.。
Then he would go to the bar.。
You can imagine what he did.。
I grew up in this kind of red-light district.。
I think I am not particularly good-looking.。
Although I am a little good-looking,。
I am not particularly good-looking.。
I am not particularly smart.。
I am really good at studying.。
I remember when I was in middle school,。
I took the first exam.。
I got 31 points out of 40 students.。
Although I didn't get to the end,。
I was already very close.。
But when I went from the first grade to the seventh grade,。
I was the second or third in the class.。
I was slowly rising.。
I am not a very good athlete.。
I have never won a gold medal.。
You can see in this photo,。
I am playing badminton with a friend.。
You can see that he is not good at playing badminton.。
I am not a very talented person.。
At least in the eyes of a Westerner,。
I am not a very talented person.。
When I became a doctor,。
I was learning how to help people take their position.。
In the past, you had to look down like this.。
You had to look at a micro-lens to see what was in the position.。
It was very difficult.。
But the problem was that my boss didn't like me.。
He didn't like me because he thought my life was too smooth.。
He said that I passed the exam right away.。
Everything seemed to be going well,。
but I had to give you some difficulties.。
So when I was training,。
I was doing my gastroenterology,。
I was very unhappy and difficult.。
I had to resign my job and go to Canada to do my PhD.。
So in the three years in Canada,。
I kept asking myself if I had made the wrong decision.。
I didn't want a doctor's job.。
I went to Canada to be a student.。
The salary I got was less than a third of what I got as a doctor.。
It was a cold place.。
It was a very difficult environment for me to grow up.。
The worst thing was that when I got my PhD,。
it was 1992,。
when Canada was just entering the country's economic downturn.。
I wrote ten letters to ten different universities and hospitals in Canada.。
None of them replied to me,。
saying that they could hire me to continue working there.。
I thought, "Oh no, I'm graduating and I'm unemployed.。
I can't go back to work in the hospital."。
At that moment, Hong Kong called me and said,。
"Your boss has left.。
Do you still want to come back to work?"。
That's how I came back to Hong Kong in 1992.。
I was working at a Chinese university.。
I thought I would be working there for a year or two,。
because I thought I wouldn't stay in Hong Kong for long.。
But I worked there for 35 years.。
It was a completely unexpected arrangement.。
As I worked there, things started to improve.。
I started to see some achievements.。
The articles we published were viewed by more people.。
I trained more dentists and became a team.。
Ten years later, in 2003,。
a big change occurred.。
Everyone remembers SARS.。
It was a completely unprepared environment.。
When we thought we had some achievements,。
God gave us a surprise.。
It turned out that what we knew was very limited.。
We thought we had a lot of medical skills and experience.。
But when a new virus appeared,。
we were completely at a loss.。
I remember telling myself and the reporters,。
"I feel like I'm carrying 100 eggs in my heart.。
I can't let it fall to the ground."。
Each egg is a patient of mine.。
25% of the patients are doctors and nurses.。
I don't want to see any life。
because we don't know how to deal with it.。
So we lost these precious lives.。
At that moment, we prayed together and told God,。
"Please don't let my ignorance。
make us abandon a life,。
a precious life."。
At that moment, the whole room,。
the whole room of my office was filled with Christians.。
Because we really had a lot of difficulties in our hearts.。
We didn't know how to solve them.。
But when we felt we were the most incompetent,。
when we felt we lacked wisdom,。
when we were the weakest,。
God showed His strength.。
A miracle happened.。
We started to pray for each patient in the ward every day.。
Then we started to see the restoration.。
Then there was the story of Sars.。
You may have heard of it.。
In this transition,。
people thought, "You can be a leader.。
Why don't you do more leadership work?"。
In 2008, when Sichuan had a big earthquake,。
I took a group of classmates to Wenchuan,。
the place where the earthquake was the most severe.。
We went to the town.。
You can see the bell is broken.。
Many buildings have collapsed.。
The buildings next to us were originally three-story buildings,。
but now they are on the ground.。
At that time, I started to feel。
that what I could do。
or what God wanted me to do。
was more than sitting in the office or in the door of the clinic to see the earthquake.。
I can lead a group of students。
to make them more useful people in society.。
I thought, although I was much older than them,。
I was actually at the same age as their father,。
but they didn't seem to give up on me and their generation.。
They became my good friends.。
So I became a principal.。
It was a big surprise to become a principal.。
I had never studied education.。
I only studied medicine.。
I had never studied leadership or politics.。
But I was completely surprised to become a principal.。
In this surprise, I found that I had to face many problems every day.。
I never imagined how to face them.。
Although everyone was very happy at the graduation ceremony,。
the graduation ceremony of our university was the most terrifying day of the year.。
Because there were protests and demonstrations that day.。
Many reporters came to film our embarrassing scenes。
and asked me some embarrassing questions.。
So every year, November is my biggest worry.。
I didn't know what would happen that day.。
I didn't know what kind of surprises would happen that day.。
I just passed by the principal's office for seven and a half years.。
I don't know why I came to this place.。
The story I just told you。
is to show that I am a very honest person.。
I am a very ordinary person.。
I am an ordinary person.。
But just like you,。
our ordinary can become God's extraordinary.。
Our weak can become God's manifestation of His ability.。
Our ignorant can become God's wisdom.。
Sister Ling, have you ever thought that。
even if you are very ordinary,。
as long as God is by your side,。
as long as He is holding you in His hands,。
one day you may do something great.。
Or even in the eyes of others,。
it may not seem like a big deal.。
But in His eyes, it seems like a big deal.。
So today's Bible reminds us again。
not to underestimate our own judgment.。
He says, if God wants to choose,。
He will choose those who are humble,。
those who are ungrateful.。
This is in Acts 4, verse 6.。
He says He will resist those who are arrogant,。
but will be kind to those who are humble.。
Then He says in Columbus' 12th chapter,。
9th chapter,。
"My grace is sufficient for you;。
my power is more perfect in the body of the weak."。
It is not about how much power we have.。
It is not about our ability that counts.。
It is about our availability.。
We are willing to be used by God.。
It is like the saying,。
"Lord, I am here, please show me."。
Do you have this kind of mind today?。
Do not underestimate yourself as a housewife.。
Do not underestimate yourself as a...。
I am about to retire. I am in my teens.。
I don't seem to have done anything great.。
Do not underestimate your own ability.。
Because in God's eyes, it is okay to be average.。
He can make your average life。
become a very un-average life.。
Let us bow our heads and pray.。
Heavenly Father, we thank you.。
Because our life is actually under your control,。
within your plan.。
We thank you because you allow us to enjoy。
the growth and acceptance of your love.。
Although we are not many in ability,。
not many in wisdom,。
you have chosen the weak in this world,。
called the wise, to be taken in.。
You have also chosen the weak in this world,。
called the strong to be taken in.。
You have chosen us because we are humble.。
We are one and the same.。
Until when you do great things,。
we cannot overestimate ourselves.。
What we overestimate is your ability.。
We ask you to use each one of us well.。
We are willing to cook like cooking vegetables.。
I am here. Please show me.。
Listen to our prayer.。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
