Hello everyone, in my office I wrote a poem, a famous opening of "Three Kingdoms"。
The first sentence is "The long river is boiling, the east is a small stream, the waves are flowing, the hero is running, is it a success or a failure, the green hill is still there, the few roads are straight and the sun is red"。
Then I wrote "The old man is white as a morning dew, the tree is still there" I want to share with you today is that in our life, we have walked a life of road, do you think you are a successful person or a failure?。
This does not necessarily mean doing academic, business, or government work. It may also mean that you are a housewife, a mother, or even a housekeeper.。
But how do we view our success and failure in the Bible?。
The Bible that our host just read gave me a very special view.。
It seems that the definition of success and failure in the Bible is very different from ours.。
I want to show you a picture. Do you think these two people are successful or failed?。
I think we are watching the news every day, what are they doing, what are they saying?。
One is the most powerful person in the world. As the President of the United States, he signed an executive decision to immediately increase tariffs or do some amazing things.。
The other is the richest person in the world. Although he is only 50 years old, he owns the largest electric car company in the world, a rocket and AI company.。
The most powerful person told the richest person, "Come and help me, help me clean up the door of our government, fire these useless people, and I will give you more money.。
Because I will put the money saved by the government into sending people to Mars." Do you remember his opening speech?。
"We need to put more money into AI and other businesses." The richest person told the most powerful person, "You put me in an important position in the government,。
let me cut down some cotton, put some rainwater, so that I can make you more powerful, more able to control the world.。
You go here to collect taxes, go there to cut budget, so you can become a more powerful person.。
Money and power are often what we pursue. These two things cannot be separated.。
I believe many people will think of many examples. When you have money, you will have power more easily.。
When you have power, you will have more money. But is the success described in the Bible enough to have these two things?。
In history, there is a person who is rich and very powerful. I even think he is the most successful person in human history.。
He conquered the world at the age of 30. This person is Alexander the Great.。
Many students have read his story when they were in school.。
He conquered Europe from Europe to Asia to India at the age of 30. If he had not died, if he had not died early,。
he might have really ruled the world. Because he has already crossed the border of Eurasia.。
He is a very knowledgeable person. His teacher is Aristotle, a very famous philosopher.。
He received very good education. He is not only knowledgeable, but also a poet.。
He can write poetry. I just found out.。
And what he did has been passed down for many generations. It is hard to compare with him.。
I just said that he has never lost a battle on the battlefield.。
In so many battles, from the beginning to the Persian, Egyptian, Middle Eastern and other countries,。
to India, he has never lost.。
There were 20 cities in the world called Alexander.。
The most famous city in Egypt at that time was not Cairo, but Alexander.。
One of the seven wonders of the world is the lighthouse on the city of Alexander.。
It was built because of him.。
The army led by him never left. And he is a person who knows how to use today's saying to show his image.。
He knows how to make his image look good.。
When people around him see him, they worship him very much.。
In the end, no one knows how he died.。
But there are some legends that he drank too much and died after a few days of drinking.。
So, gastroenterology is a very important subject.。
So I chose this subject to do.。
He died after drinking.。
There is no way to prove that this is not true in his legend.。
When he died at the age of 32, he was only in his thirties.。
He was buried in a golden coffin.。
There were two holes in the coffin.。
He was asked to take his hands out of the two holes.。
When he was buried, he was seen by the whole world.。
He was seen by the whole world.。
This is how Alexander the Great was described in history.。
Do you think he was a successful person or a failure?。
The Bible we just read tells us how the Bible defines a person as successful or failure.。
Look at the Chinese. I will read an English translation for you.。
He said, "Very truly I tell you, unless a kernel of wheat falls to the ground and dies,。
it remains only a single seed."。
He said, "It is only a seed, but if it dies, it produces many seeds."。
If it is broken down, it becomes many seeds.。
This is what we read in the Bible.。
You may wonder how a seed dies.。
Jesus continues to explain how a seed falls to the ground and dies.。
He said, "Anyone who loves their life will lose it."。
Anyone who loves their life and wants to pass on all the best things to others will lose their life.。
"While anyone who hates their life in this world will keep it for eternal life."。
Those people will be able to obtain eternal life.。
He said, "Whoever serves me must follow me, and where I am, the servant will also be.。
My Father will honor the one who serves me."。
Whoever follows me will follow me.。
Wherever I go, you will go.。
My Father honors you.。
This is a successful life.。
Because my Father, God, honors you.。
This is a successful example in the Bible.。
When did Jesus say this?。
It is very interesting and special.。
When I was reading John's book,。
I found that John's book is completely different from the previous three books.。
John's book is like the three books John read before,。
which contain the gaps in the middle.。
He found them very important.。
John rarely talks about one thing at a time,。
but he recorded many of Jesus' words.。
Although this is in John's book 12,。
it is actually the last chapter of Jesus' 33 years on earth.。
At that time, many people already knew Jesus.。
Many people were excited to hear him speak.。
Many people followed him.。
Until that day, he walked into Jerusalem on a donkey.。
This represents the people's greatest respect for him.。
For example, today, a king or a prime minister came to Singapore。
and received him with a red carpet.。
At that time, there was no red carpet,。
so he laid a lotus plant on the ground.。
He didn't even have a good horse,。
so he gave him a donkey to ride.。
But it also represents the people at that time,。
the people of the Gentiles,。
their future expectations and expectations.。
He thought this was their future Savior.。
So Jesus entered Jerusalem as a successful man.。
Before he entered, he said the words I just said.。
But have you ever thought that。
at that moment, he was successful,。
but soon he would flip to the most unsuccessful moment.。
In the eyes of people, it was the most unsuccessful moment.。
Because after he entered Jerusalem,。
he could not come out again.。
After he entered,。
it was his last meal,。
his last supper.。
Then he was arrested and charged with death on the cross.。
When I look back at this Bible,。
I find that the success and failure of our life,。
or the so-called success and failure in the eyes of ordinary people,。
are actually very different from the definition of the Bible or God.。
Secondly, if you think you are successful today,。
maybe in a moment,。
you will become the most unsuccessful person in the world.。
You see this president today, he looks like a boss.。
We don't know if he will really be like this all the time.。
At least in the eyes of people, it is considered successful.。
But it may change overnight.。
When we were studying,。
we always read the words of King Eugene II.。
From the perspective of people,。
King Eugene II said, "Success is not final."。
Success is not eternal, not the last.。
Failure is not fatal.。
It is the courage to continue that counts.。
It is the courage to continue that counts.。
This is a saying that many people like.。
In the eyes of people,。
success and failure are always there.。
Success and failure are always there.。
But it doesn't matter.。
The most important thing is that you have the courage to continue working hard.。
Then you will succeed.。
This is Winston Churchill's wise saying.。
But the Bible doesn't seem to say that.。
The Bible says that if you want to be successful,。
you have to die.。
You have to die like a piece of ink on the ground.。
I want to talk about the story I always tell.。
It was 20 years ago.。
There was SARS in Hong Kong and Singapore.。
At that moment,。
I experienced the most successful and most unsuccessful。
at the same time.。
Why do I say it was successful?。
Because when this unknowingly contagious disease。
came to Hong Kong and Singapore,。
no one knew what it was.。
But the doctors in our team。
were the first to describe in detail。
what SARS was.。
We published a very important article.。
To this day, it is the most quoted article in all my articles.。
Because no one knew what it was.。
Not only that,。
we also discovered what the virus was.。
The black dots in the middle。
are the virus of the coronavirus.。
We also discovered what the virus was。
and where it came from.。
So, in terms of science,。
it was a success.。
We published a very important article.。
We also made a lot of money.。
I really use this word with others.。
We made a lot of money this time。
for the support and generosity of the citizens.。
At that moment, the medical staff。
seemed to have enjoyed a disaster.。
But they brought us some。
unexpected results.。
But it was also a failure.。
Looking back,。
it was a failure.。
Because in the end,。
we couldn't find a drug。
that could kill the virus like antibiotics.。
We couldn't even successfully。
lock it in a certain area.。
This photo was taken in a place。
where there were 2,000 to 3,000 people。
who had to be moved to a refugee camp.。
It was a camp.。
It was a life camp.。
It was like a camp for people to camp.。
4,000 people had to be moved。
to that place for a few days.。
Because the entire building。
including the garden and several buildings。
had to be cleaned.。
We still can't find the source of the virus.。
What's worse is that。
although we know that eating fruit。
is one of the reasons for the disease,。
we still can't change our habits。
of eating wild fruits and fruit.。
At that time, I knew that。
all the night markets。
had removed the word "wild fruit"。
and replaced it with "seafood".。
It was called "Seafood Night Market".。
After removing the word,。
it was changed to "Seafood Night Market".。
Then the newspaper said。
that we would not eat it again.。
You can try it today in Guangzhou.。
You can still eat。
the food that was not allowed to be eaten.。
We can't change our eating habits.。
But in the whole of SARS,。
the most successful and unsuccessful。
is the doctor named。
Mr. Tse Yuen-Wen.。
I don't know if you still remember.。
He was a young doctor。
in the Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery。
at Tuen Mun Hospital.。
He was a Christian.。
He voluntarily went into the ward。
to treat patients who couldn't breathe.。
But we didn't know how to prevent the infection.。
So he and another male nurse。
were infected that day.。
I went to Tuen Mun Hospital to treat him.。
But it was too late。
because he was already infected.。
He couldn't even talk to me.。
A few days later, he passed away.。
It was May 12, 2003.。
After his death,。
Hong Kong was in mourning。
for this young cardiothoracic surgeon.。
And in a newspaper,。
he used this chapter of the Bible as the headline.。
It said, "A piece of ink is not on the ground,。
but is still a piece of ink when it dies."。
But if it dies,。
he will collect a lot of pieces of paper.。
That newspaper was banned in Hong Kong today.。
You know which one, right?。
The "Fruit Daily".。
I couldn't imagine。
that the newspaper would use the Bible。
to describe Tuen Mun.。
He sacrificed himself to save a patient.。
And his influence is still in the medical field.。
Many people think。
he is a great sacrificial spirit.。
If we know he is a Christian,。
we may have seen his movies and songs。
about his work.。
In Hong Kong, we call him。
"The Daughter of Hong Kong".。
It's a title with a lot of meanings.。
Is he successful or failed?。
Of course he failed.。
He was only 30 years old.。
But the piece of ink on the ground。
has successfully influenced。
many people's lives.。
I'm not as great as him,。
but I have a little bit of this feeling.。
Success or failure.。
After a year of SARS,。
the government investigated。
whether the work of prevention and infection。
was done well or not.。
At that time, some members of the committee。
thought that the hospital staff。
did not guard well.。
So the virus spread to the community.。
I was investigated by the government。
three times at that stage.。
I was very depressed.。
I wanted to quit.。
I wanted to leave Hong Kong.。
I didn't want to be involved。
in the political struggle。
and the fall of the Li Kang.。
But at that moment,。
I felt Jesus' words。
in the cross.。
When he was nailed to the cross,。
he was about to die,。
he said to God,。
"My God, why do you abandon me?"。
He spoke Hebrew, I don't know how to read.。
He said, "My God, why do you abandon me?"。
Actually, at that moment,。
I had told God in prayer,。
"My God, why do you abandon me?。
Since you have led us。
to pass through the SARS successfully,。
why do you give us。
such a big challenge at this moment,。
even a dark day?"。
But because of this reason,。
my life changed.。
Because of this reason,。
it changed my life as a Christian.。
It is very important.。
If a piece of ink doesn't fall to the ground and die,。
it will only become one.。
So Jesus said,。
"You see success and failure。
from a completely different perspective.。
There are countless examples in the Bible.。
Everyone is familiar with this man,。
Job.。
He was a very successful man。
because he had wealth,。
a beautiful family,。
and countless children.。
But overnight,。
because of the disaster。
and being robbed,。
everything was gone.。
He even had a disease called Job's disease.。
This disease is mentioned in the Bible today.。
If you look at the Bible,。
Job had a wound on his body.。
He had to use a toothpick。
to cut out the wound.。
This disease is mentioned in the Bible today.。
A very painful life,。
from the moment of success to the moment of failure.。
The Bible used a long chapter。
to explain to his friends and enemies,。
and everyone came to him to explain。
why this happened.。
In the end,。
God did not give a very clear answer。
why he was a good man,。
or even a man who was delighted by God.。
Why did he change from the best blessing,。
the most successful position。
to the most failed position?。
God did not explain.。
He just told him,。
"This is the reward I can give you."。
In the end, he had all his family,。
his property, etc.。
In the process of suffering,。
Job said,。
"I am born from the womb,。
and I will return."。
"The one who wants to try is Jehovah,。
and the one who receives is Jehovah."。
"The name of Jehovah should be praised."。
Many people feel that。
it seems to be not finished yet.。
God may not have been able to explain the whole thing clearly.。
But God did not explain clearly。
why our success and failure.。
It's just to let you know that。
in the process,。
when we are at our lowest point in life,。
it is also when God is closest to us.。
It is when you feel that。
he can help you the most.。
So this sentence, he said,。
"The greatest mystery in suffering。
is how it can bring a person。
into the presence of God."。
God's appearance。
is often at your most failed time,。
at your most troubled, painful time.。
Then, he gives you a state of worship。
full of wonder, love, and praise.。
Let you truly enter。
the stage of being with him.。
I don't have much time to say。
all I want to say today.。
If you have a chance to read this book,。
it is about a surgeon。
at Stanford University.。
He was very young。
and had just become a professor of brain surgery.。
He found himself with cancer.。
When he was cutting,。
his back suddenly hurt so much。
that it fell to the ground.。
This book is about。
the moment he found himself with cancer。
and died.。
How did he change his life?。
The book is called "When Breath Becomes Air".。
It is about the stage of his death.。
He found that。
all our knowledge,。
wealth, and status。
could not help him。
face his death at that moment.。
Then he returned to。
the ultimate meaning of life.。
I don't know if he was a Christian,。
but he found the answer。
to his life's end。
in pain.。
I want to talk about this。
in a little more time.。
The Bible says。
if you love your life,。
you will lose it.。
But if you hate your life,。
you will gain it.。
You will gain your life.。
The word "hate"。
is very difficult to explain.。
It does not mean you hate yourself.。
It is more like。
when you surrender,。
when you give yourself up,。
whoever can do this。
will gain more life.。
The Bible talks about。
how to surrender to God.。
There are three good examples.。
The first is when。
the angel and the archangel were in a fight.。
The angel touched his thigh.。
His leg was bent.。
We believe he lost his thigh.。
Sorry, doctors like to。
think about what exactly。
the disease was.。
We believe he lost his thigh。
so he could not move.。
He grabbed the angel and said,。
"If you don't bless me,。
I won't let you go."。
This is when his own ability。
and success were all in vain.。
God knows how to hold God back.。
Open yourself to God.。
You can read this in the Bible.。
The second example I like is。
when Joshua was facing the soldiers。
before the battle.。
Suddenly, an angel came out。
and said,。
"Are you helping us。
or helping my enemies?"。
Joshua said,。
"I am not helping you。
or your enemies.。
I am here to lead。
the army of the Lord."。
"You are standing on the holy ground。
so you must take off your shoes."。
"Take off your shoes"。
means to take out your sovereignty。
and let God govern you.。
The third example is。
when you encounter many。
unexplained problems in life.。
If you are a piece of ink,。
you don't need to know。
all the answers。
because you are in God's hands.。
Just like Daniel,。
before he explained his dream,。
the king was a bit confused.。
He had a dream。
but he forgot what it was.。
He needed someone to help him solve it.。
"You tell me。
what dream you had."。
He even forgot what his dream was.。
"You give me the answers."。
But Daniel was able to get。
the message of the salvation。
from God.。
There are many big problems。
in life.。
If we really fall on the ground,。
God will give us the answers.。
Finally, the Bible says。
if you want to follow me,。
you must follow me。
wherever I go.。
Finally, I want to tell you。
the story of this friend I brought today.。
More than ten years ago,。
I took a group of students from a Chinese university。
to a place called Hsia Gan in Tai Yu Shan.。
It's a place that is hard to get to.。
You need to take several boats to get there.。
There is a school there called。
the Christian School of Bible.。
Why did I know about this school?。
Because there was a scandal。
that the school was using money for personal gain.。
They wanted to move to a better place,。
but the local residents opposed it.。
So it was sold in the newspaper.。
I saw that this place was very special。
because it was for the young people。
who were addicted and committed crimes。
to return to the right path。
and to use our Christian faith.。
So I took a group of students and teachers。
to visit this Christian school.。
I met a group of young people there.。
They were having a hard time.。
They had to carry the sand and mud。
to build their own school.。
Their place of residence was very simple.。
I told the principal there,。
"Give me a chance to get to know。
a few young people.。
I hope I can help them get into university."。
If one of them gets into university,。
we can give them a message。
that society has not abandoned these young people.。
We can give them a chance.。
But as a university principal,。
I can't just let them in。
because I like them.。
So I told them to find a few people。
who are willing to study。
and let me teach them.。
I hope I can help them get into university。
and officially get into university.。
They chose three young people.。
The one in black on my right。
is Dong, who will talk to you later.。
They came to my place once a month.。
They had to take a two-hour ride。
to get to the beach.。
I suggested they stay with me。
and have dinner with me.。
I taught them English at night.。
I only taught them English.。
The next day, the teacher drove them back.。
It took two hours.。
We brought three students.。
Too many students couldn't handle it.。
I was a little scared once.。
I put them in my house.。
The next morning, I ran downstairs.。
I suddenly remembered that。
there were three people with poison on me.。
And a black tattoo on my body.。
I lived there with my wife and two daughters.。
They were all women.。
I was a little scared.。
So I ran upstairs.。
I didn't tell them,。
"You've never heard of this story."。
I was a little scared.。
But they gave me a big surprise.。
They gave me a neck band.。
I was so hot.。
Three men gave me a neck band.。
It was extraordinary.。
Today, I'd like to introduce you to。
You Yuen Tung.。
He's a social worker now.。
He's studying to be a social worker.。
Please give him a round of applause.。
Hello, I'm You Yuen Tung.。
Today, I'm going to talk about success and failure.。
Professor Shen said, "Can you talk about it?"。
"I only have a few minutes."。
But it's okay.。
When I see success and failure,。
some people don't know my background.。
They think I'm a social worker.。
I've helped many young people。
do a lot of education work.。
I've helped many young people in the black community.。
I've helped them change their lives.。
I've seen them succeed.。
But I've thought about。
the times when I've failed.。
Before I joined the Student Union,。
I thought I was a failure.。
I've always had a habit of being a social worker.。
I've always been so used to it.。
Before I joined the Student Union,。
I've always thought I've never studied.。
Throughout my middle school,。
people asked me what I studied.。
I could say the name of the school,。
but I don't have any school memories.。
I always think my youth was a failure.。
But I don't know what I'm going to talk about today.。
But there's a sentence in the book。
that says when you surrender,。
God will open the way for you.。
I was 14, 12 to 18 years old.。
I had a habit of being a social worker.。
I've been to a boy's kindergarten and a brothel.。
But I was never self-centered.。
I told myself I would come back and continue to play.。
I would definitely be a big brother.。
But before I joined the Student Union,。
I wasn't arrested.。
I was so self-conscious and weak.。
I told myself, "I've given up.。
I don't want to play anymore."。
But I was allowed to join the Student Union.。
It wasn't easy to get into the Student Union.。
You had to apply.。
There weren't many seats.。
But they allowed me in.。
I didn't have to go to court.。
I volunteered to go in.。
After reading this sentence,。
I thought, "It seems like it."。
When you surrender,。
and try to let go,。
God will open the way for you.。
But don't think you're good at studying。
just because you joined the Student Union.。
I didn't know why I chose this.。
I didn't plan to study at first.。
I thought I would quit my studies。
and come back to normal.。
I'd been in prison for two years。
and never left.。
I thought I'd come back to being a normal person.。
As long as I didn't take drugs。
and didn't break the law, I'd be fine.。
But one day,。
people told me,。
"You're lucky Professor Shen helped you with your studies."。
I thought, "What's the point?"。
They said, "He's famous."。
I thought, "Everyone wants this opportunity."。
I should study hard.。
Study hard.。
I'm grateful to the headmaster for helping me.。
God led me to。
enter the College of Education and Training。
and study a higher diploma。
in the Social Work Department.。
Studying doesn't mean anything.。
I always tell him,。
"I studied so hard."。
I always think,。
"I seem to be very successful.。
I studied in a department and can study Social Work."。
But in the end, I studied terribly.。
I studied terribly.。
I remember my first semester,。
I failed in all subjects.。
I told him,。
"I can study,。
but that doesn't mean I can finish."。
He kept encouraging me.。
I told myself, "It's okay.。
I'll try again."。
He took a two-year course。
in a higher diploma.。
I studied for three and a half years and finished.。
But I was successful.。
I graduated from the college five years ago。
and became a Social Worker.。
People think I'm very successful,。
but I'm not.。
I still have some dreams.。
For example,。
I told the headmaster。
that he wanted me to enter the college.。
I told myself,。
"I want to try hard and。
take the quadruple crown."。
I finally retook the course this year.。
I heard that。
the Social Work course。
I took in the college。
was very bad.。
I thought I was already good at it.。
I could be a Social Worker,。
a teacher,。
and do what I wanted to do.。
I've always ignored my grades.。
But recently,。
I told myself,。
"I'll try to retake the course again."。
I kept encouraging him。
and got a good result.。
Before I left,。
I received an offer。
from a school。
to let me continue the course.。
Sometimes I say,。
"God is very interesting.。
If you are willing to surrender。
and He will return your trust,。
He will take you to more places."。
This is my little sharing.。
If a piece of ink。
hadn't fallen to the ground and died,。
it wouldn't have died,。
but it would have been a complete change.。
I believe。
God will help more people.。
I hope today's message。
can help us.。
Maybe you feel your life is full of failure.。
Maybe you feel。
everything is not going well.。
Or maybe you feel you are very mighty.。
You have become a high-ranking official。
and made a lot of money.。
But God's definition。
of success and failure。
is often very different from ours.。
I hope we can。
be in front of Him。
and be praised by Him.。
We can be a faithful。
and submissive。
servant.。
That's all for today.。
Thank you.。
www.mooji.org。
www.mooji.org/info。
www.mooji.org/info。
www.mooji.org/info。
www.mooji.org/info。
www.mooji.org/info。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
